'The 50 European Currency Unit gold coins which go on sale tomorrow in Belgium will be priced at a premium of seven pct to the value of the gold they contain, a Finance Ministry spokesman said. The price will be calculated daily, based on the daily gold fixing in London.     Belgium is minting an initial 50,000 gold coins to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the European Community\'s founding Treaty of Rome, but final production is expected to be around 200,000. Each 17.27 gram coin will contain 55 grams of fine metal.     Two mln silver coins, face value five Ecus, will be sold at 500 francs each.  \n',gold
'The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd BRKN.S (BHP) said it plans a renounceable one-for-three issue of rights to float a new company, BHP Gold Mines Ltd (BHPGM), which will hold most of BHP\'s gold interests.     In a statement BHP said the 25-cent par rights would be priced at 50 cents for 430 mln of the BHPGM shares on offer. BHP will subscribe for the remaining 540 mln shares, or 56 pct of issued capital, on the same terms.     BHPGM will pay 440 mln dlrs for BHP\'s gold interests, excluding its stake in Papua New Guinea\'s Ok Tedi Mining Ltd and those interests held by BHP\'s Utah International Inc.     The BHP statement said the issue will be made to shareholders registered on March 27. It opens April 4 and closes April 29, and is underwritten by J.B. Were and Son. Rights will be traded on Australian stock exchanges from March 23 to April 22, and the new shares will be quoted from June 4.     BHP said the new company will be one of Australia\'s larger gold producers, with annual output exceeding 170,000 ounces. It said there are plans to boost production to 300,000 ounces by the early 1990s. BHPGM\'s portfolio will include several Australian mines -- 30 pct of Telfer, 100 pct of Ora Banda and Browns Creek and 20 pct of the new Boddington development.     The statement said BHPGM would also hold BHP\'s 45 pct stake in the Coronation Hill Property in the Northern Territory, and its 55 pct stake in a new venture near Gympie, Queensland.     BHPGM chairman-designate John Gough said it was a quality gold stock.     \"The diversity and depth of BHP Gold\'s portfolio ... Give the company a sound foundation in current gold production and an exciting potential for growth,\" he said.  \n',gold
'Thousands of black mineworkers roared support for a union proposal to seize control of South Africa\'s gold, uranium, platinum and coal mines if the owners refuse to improve conditions for migrant black workers.     About 15,000 miners attended a rally here to endorse moves proposed by last week\'s annual meeting of the 200,000 strong National Union of Mineworkers (NUM).     They also supported a proposal for a national strike at the end of this month if the owners refused to begin negotiations.     Migrant workers from surrounding countries make up more than half of the labour force in the mines.     It was not stated how the union would \"seize control.\"     The miners\' leaders also demanded an end to the system of single sex hostels for migrant workers, to be replaced by housing schemes so that workers could live with their families.     The crowd, one of the largest to attend a meeting since South Africa declared a state of emergency last June, also shouted approval of a proposal to work closely with anti-apartheid movements such as the United Democratic Front (UDF) which claims two mln members. They also shouted their support for a demand that jailed black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela be released.  \n',gold
'British Petroleum Co PLC said based on a feasibility report from Ridgeway Mining Co, its joint venture Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial gold production by mid-1988.     The company said the mine would produce approximately 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected 11 year life of the mine.     BP\'s partner is Galactic Resources Ltd of Toronto.     BP said subject to receipt of all statutory permits, finalization of financing arrangements and management and joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per day processing facility can start. Capital costs to bring the mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs.  \n',gold
'Canamax Resources Inc and Pacific Trans-Ocean Resources Ltd said they conditionally approved starting production at their jointly owned Ketza River gold deposit in the Yukon after a study recommended the move.     They said production was conditional on approval of a water license and arrangement of appropriate financing. They estimated development costs for the mine and mill would total 21.1 mln dlrs, including three mln dlrs of working capital.     The feasibility study anticipated gold production of 49,600 ounces a year at a cost of 129 Canadian dlrs a short ton, they said.     Canamax and Pacific Trans-Ocean said the project would yield a 40 pct after-tax real rate of return at a gold price of 400 U.S. dlrs an ounce.     They said they would mine 460,000 tonnes of proven and probable mineable reserves of oxide ore grading 0.45 ounce gold ton at a yearly rate of 112,000 tonnes for a mine life of 4.25 years.     Possible reserves of 75,000 tonnes grading 0.38 ounce gold ton at the break zone would extend mine life by a year, with considerable potential for development of further oxide ore reserves at the deposit, they said.  \n',gold
'Carolin Mines Ltd said recent assays of tailings at its Hope, British Columbia mine ranged from 0.50 to 0.64 ounces of gold per ton.      There were only trace amounts of platinum and palladium, the company said.     Carolin said the results sharply disagreed with an earlier assay performed by Intergold U.S.A. Inc which showed 1.0 ounce of gold per ton and 0.50 ounce of platinum per ton.     Carolin also said it expects to receive results of further tests and assays of the tailings within two to three weeks.  \n',gold
'Gold output in the northeast China province of Heilongjiang rose 22.7 pct in 1986 from 1985\'s level, the New China News Agency said. It gave no figures.     It said the province, China\'s second largest gold producer after Shandong, plans to double gold output by 1990 from the 1986 level. China does not publish gold production figures.     However, industry sources estimate output at about 65 tonnes a year, with exports put between 11 and 31 tonnes.     China is selling more gold abroad to offset large trade deficits in recent years, western diplomats said.  \n',gold
'Consolidated TVX Mining Corp said it agreed to issue 7.8 mln treasury shares to acquire interests in three gold mining companies in Brazil and an option to increase the company\'s interest in a platinum property.     The company said the transactions will bring immediate production and earnings to Consolidated TVX, enhance its precious metal potential and is expected to improve cash flow and earnings on a per share basis. The company did not give specific figures.     Consolidated TVX said it will acquire 29 pct of CMP, a public gold mining company in which TVX already holds a 15 pct interest, making TVX the largest single shareholder.     The company also agreed to acquire a 19 pct stake in Novo Astro, a private company, and a 16 pct interest in Teles Pires Mining, increasing the TVX\'s ownership to 51 pct.     In addition, Consolidated TVX said it will acquire the right to add a 10 pct interest to a platinum property in which it already owns a 29.4 pct stake.     CMP earned 11 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986 and expects to produce 42,000 ounces of gold in 1987 at a cost of 160 U.S. dlrs an ounce, Consolidated TVX said.     Novo Astro operates Brazil\'s richest gold mine located in Amapa State, with an average grade of 0.8 ounces of gold a ton in a hardrock quartz vein, Consolidated TVX said. Mining of eluvial surface material produced 25,000 ounces in 1986 and is expected to produce 60,000 ounces in 1987.     It also said Teles Pires Mining controls rights to a 350 kilometer section of the Teles Pires River, where one dredge is expected to produce 10,000 ounces of gold in 1987.  \n',gold
'Currency fluctuations may reassert their influence on the bullion market in the near future, bullion bankers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said in a market report.     But the firm said silver may lag behind gold in any reactions to movements on foreign exchanges.     \"OPEC\'s failure to address the recent decline in oil prices remains a worrying factor however, and on balance it appears that the market should be approached cautiously,\" Montagu said.     The bank said the US economy has shown no noticeable long-term improvement and that both Latin American debt and the Iranian arms affair could undermine confidence in the dollar.  \n',gold
'East Rand Proprietary Mines Ltd said that barring any major disruption in production, it expects 1987 gold output to top 10 tonnes after dropping to 9.223 tonnes last year from 10.251 in 1985.     Chairman Clive Knobbs said in the annual report the mine was expected to mill a higher tonnage while capital expenditure during 1987 will be around 118.5 mln rand.    The decline in gold production last year was due to a four pct drop in tonnage milled and a seven pct decline in grade.  \n',gold
'Echo Bay Mines Ltd said it discovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy gold mine in Nevada.     Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holes at Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a short ton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersections averaging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden.     The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeast of the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expected to produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Bay said.  \n',gold
'The public prosecutors and police here arrested five former senior executives of a bankrupt gold deposit business group for defrauding about 450 clients of about 1.5 billion yen for gold bars which were never delivered, police said.     The case involving the Toyota Shoji Company was highlighted when its 32-year-old Chairman Kazuo Nagano was stabbed to death here in public view in June, 1985.     Television crews which had been waiting outside Nagano\'s home filmed two men smashing their way into the home and later emerging with a bloodstained bayonet.     The company, established here in 1981, undertook to hold gold on deposit for investors. It grew into a nationwide business operation with 87 branch offices and 7,000 employees at its peak in early 1985.     Toyota Shoji\'s business group collected an estimated 200 billion yen from about 30,000 clients, many of them pensioners and housewives, before the firm went bankrupt in July, 1985, according to lawyers.     Of them, some 18,000 clients cla&#127;imed they could get back neither gold or money, suffering an aggregate loss of 150 billion yen, local press reports said.     Police said the five arrested on charge of fraud today included Hiroshi Ishikawa, 47, former Toyota Shoji president, and a sixth former executive was placed on a wanted list.     They were suspected of having collaborated with the late Nagano in swindling about 1.5 billion yen from about 450 people in Osaka and n&#127;earby Kobe during a six month period just before the firm\'s bankruptcy, they said.     To&#127;&#127;day\'s arre&#127;st came a&#127;&#127;fter narly two years of joint&#127; investigation by the public prosecutors and police, who &#127;had questioned about 3,000 of&#127;&#127; the firm\'s former employees&#127;, police sou&#127;rces &#127;&#127;said.  \n',gold
'Franco Nevada Mining Corp Ltd said the gain in its stock price today is related to deep drilling being conducted by American Barrick Resources Corp at the Goldstrike claims in the Carlin camp in northern Nevada.     Franco Nevada stock is up two at seven dlrs per share on the Toronto Stock Exchange.     Franco Nevada said American Barrick announced on March nine that the drilling indicated a number of significant intersections of sulfide gold mineralization below a depth of about 1,000 feet.     One vertical drill hole intersected gold continuously from 1,100 feet to 1,730 feet averaging 0.30 ounces per short ton, the announcement said.  \n',gold
'The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said.     Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale\'s trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.     \"A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges,\" Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.     Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.     Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.     Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.     Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG\'s foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year.     The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said.  \n',gold
'The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said.     Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale\'s trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.     \"A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges,\" Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.     Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.     Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.     Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.     Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG\'s foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year.     The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said.  \n',gold
'Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said.     It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries\' efforts to achieve further firming of the price has led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S.     Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed central bank limits and real growth of their gross national products, it added.     Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said.     Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen, the bank said.     These factors and South Africa\'s unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underscore the firmer sentiment, it said.     However, Australia\'s output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986.  \n',gold
'Canamax Resources Inc and Pacific Trans-Ocean Resources Ltd said they conditionally approved starting production at their jointly owned Ketza River gold deposit in the Yukon after a study recommended the move.     They said production was conditional on approval of a water license and arrangement of appropriate financing. They estimated development costs for the mine and mill would total 21.1 mln dlrs, including three mln dlrs of working capital.     The feasibility study anticipated gold production of 49,600 ounces a year at a cost of 129 Canadian dlrs a short ton, they said.     Canamax and Pacific Trans-Ocean said the project would yield a 40 pct after-tax real rate of return at a gold price of 400 U.S. dlrs an ounce.     They said they would mine 460,000 tonnes of proven and probable mineable reserves of oxide ore grading 0.45 ounce gold per ton at a yearly rate of 112,000 tonnes for a mine life of 4.25 years.     Possible reserves of 75,000 tonnes grading 0.38 ounce gold per ton at the break zone would extend mine life by a year, with considerable potential for development of further oxide ore reserves at the deposit, they said.  \n',gold
'Golden North Resource Corp said said surface and underground drilling on the Canty project and Mascot fraction at its Nickel Plate Mountain property in British Columbia returned encouraging gold assays.     It said one Canty hole encountered several mineralized intervals including 11 feet grading 0.342 ounce gold a short ton from 86 to 97 feet and 17 feet grading 0.756 ounce gold ton from 170.5 feet to 187.5 feet.     A Mascot fraction hole returned assays including 0.190 ounce gold ton over seven feet between 57 and 64 feet, it said.  \n',gold
'The  Ministry of Mines has announced the discovery of a major gold field in Grand Bois in Haiti\'s mineral-rich North.     At a press conference yesterday, a Ministry spokesman reported the deposit contained an estimated 44 mln tons of ore, with each ton capable of containing 7,666 grams of gold. The spokesman gave no estimate of what he thought the find, discovered on Wednesday, was worth.     However, mining could only begin after foreign partners invest eight mln dlrs needed for technical equipment, the spokesman said.     The Haitian government has never before operated a gold mine, but the United Nations has recently completed a three year feasibility study which lists Grand Bois and Morne Bossa as sites of important gold deposits.     In 1971, the Sedren copper mine in Gonaives, operated by a Canadian firm, closed down after years of mining a concentrate containing gold as well as copper.     \"The new Grand Bois mine represents large amounts of money,\" said a former official of Sedren Mine.     \"But like everything else there\'s a catch. The gold has to be extracted, and first someone has to come up with the money to finance the operation,\" the official, who asked not to be named, tolds.  \n',gold
'About 8,000 black miners returned to work after a week-long industrial action at South Africa\'s largest gold mine, mine owner Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd ANGL.J said.     A spokesman for the mining house said the action started on Wednesday last week when thousands of miners staged a go-slow at One underground shaft of the Free State Geduld division of Free State Consolidated Gold Mines Ltd FSCN.J.     The action later escalated into an underground sit-in at the mine over the weekend, prompting management to close the affected shaft because of what the company described as \"the creation of unsafe working conditions.\"     Anglo American spokesman John Kingsley-Jones said the company held talks with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), South Africa\'s biggest trade union which claims a membership of 360,000 black workers, but failed to establish the cause of worker dissatisfaction. He acknowledged that the mine suffered a loss of production, but declined to give estimates.     Free State Consolidated last year produced 104 tonnes of gold from 28 underground shafts.     The NUM was not immediately available for comment on the action. But a spokesman for the union earlier told the South African Press Association that miners had been locked out of the mine at the weekend after staging a strike in protest against being ordered to carry bags containing explosives as well as food for white miners.  \n',gold
'The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said.     The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less.  \n',gold
'Dowa Mining Co Ltd said it will start commercial production of gold, copper, lead and zinc from its Nurukawa Mine in northern Japan in April.     A company spokesman said the mine\'s monthly output is expected to consist of 1,300 tonnes of gold ore and 3,700 of black ore, which consists of copper, lead and zinc ores.     A company survey shows the gold ore contains up to 13.3 grams of gold per tonne, he said.     Proven gold ore reserves amount to 50,000 tonnes while estimated reserves of gold and black ores total one mln tonnes, he added.  \n',gold
'Levon Resources Ltd said re-checked gold assays from the Howard tunnel on its Congress, British Columbia property yielded higher gold grades than those reported in January and February.     It said assays from zone one averaged 0.809 ounces of gold a ton. Levon previously reported the zone averaged 0.226 ounces of gold a ton. Levon said re-checked assays from zone two averaged 0.693 ounces of gold a ton.     Levon Resources said the revised zone two assays compared to previously reported averages of 0.545 ounces of gold a ton.     The company also said it intersected another vein 90 feet west of zone two, which assayed 0.531 ounces of gold a ton.  \n',gold
'Lac Minerals Ltd and Cambior Inc said they completed a second hole at their jointly owned Doyon mine in Quebec, which showed two significant gold intersections.     One intersection graded 0.33 ounce gold per short ton over 44 feet at depth of 1,411 feet, while the other graded 0.22 ounce gold per ton over 23 feet at 2,064 feet, the companies said. The hole is 460 feet east of the previously reported first hole.     Another hole is being drilled 460 feet to the west of the first drill hole and results are expected in late March or early April.  \n',gold
'Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York plans an issue of 12,000 warrants for gold bullion at 425 dlrs an ounce, lead manager Morgan Guaranty (Switzerland) AG said.     Each warrant, priced at 955 Swiss francs, entitled holders to acquire five-ounce bars of .999 gold in the period from April 30, 1987, to July 31, 1991, exercisable on Wednesdays.     The warrants represented unsecured, unsubordinated liabilities of the borrower. Payment was due April 16, and a quotation on the Luxembourg bourse was planned.     The warrants, when exercised, would be repaid in current dollars based on the value of gold on the exercise date.     The conditions represent a premium of about 145 dlrs an ounce to the current gold price.     A Morgan (Switzerland) official said that on the basis of the maturity of four years and three months, the pricing involved an implicit volatility of gold of 24.5 pct before the warrants were in the money, compared with implicit volatility of 30 pct for the Indosuez gold warrants and 26 pct for the Citibank gold warrants recent issued with maturities of 18 and 24 months.  \n',gold
'A new market has emerged in warrants to buy gold, a vehicle which bankers say brings some of the play of commodity options into the field of securities.     Over the past three weeks, Swiss offices of American banks have launched a total of four issues of warrants with varying conditions, drawing on renewed inflationary worries and the recovery of the gold price last year.     And Credit Suisse and Credit Suisse-First Boston each issued Swiss franc bonds with warrants for gold which have a similar character, though they are aimed at a less professional market.     The market is still small. Taken together, the four American-led warrant issues raised only about 50 mln Swiss francs.     But banks believe the vehicle meets a need of investors and predicted a lively future.     Andrew Barrett of Citicorp Investment Bank (Switzerland) AG said: \"The warrants give smaller investors a chance to have a long-term investment in gold with limited risk.\"     Citicorp in Zurich launched the first of these warrants on February 27, following it up with a second issue less than a week later. The issuer in both cases was Citibank NA.     The idea found some quick copies. Goldman Sachs in Zurich organized and co-led an issue for the Swiss branch of Banque Indosuez on March 9 and last night Morgan Guaranty (Switzerland) AG did another for Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York.     The four issues now offer investors striking prices for gold ranging from the Indosuez issue at 410 dlrs an ounce, the same price as the underlying commodity, to a 430 dlr level on the first one for Citibank.     The premiums range from 22 pct to 36 pct and maturities from 18 months to four years and three months, in all cases longer than gold futures and options on U.S. Markets.     The bankers traced the inspiration for the market back to the February report of U.S. Consumer prices for January, when a jump of 0.7 pct raised again the threat of inflation.     \"Many people are worried about inflation again,\" said Mats Joensson of Goldman Sachs. \"Money supply in Germany and the United States has grown very strongly in the last year and people want to take a ride on gold.\"     The gold market, having seen strong gains in 1986, has languished just above 400 dlrs an ounce over the past few weeks. But the banks saw in warrants the vehicle for a more highly leveraged play where the downside risk was limited.     Barrett said it was natural that the market developed in Switzerland. \"People here understand gold, and they understand warrants,\" he said.     Citicorp (Switzerland) pioneered warrants with a series of equity-linked covered issues based on Japanese company shares over the past two years, and last autumn, Swiss banks launched covered warrants in Swiss registered shares in a bid to give foreign investors a chance to play in a market otherwise closed to all but Swiss citizens, and to play it with higher leverage.     But after a quick flurry of issues, that market dried up when Swiss shares prices fell from their January peaks.     The issues are being marketed not on the basis of simple premiums, but on implicit volatility models devised to provide scientific comparisons between titles in the options market.     Martin Bachem of Morgan Guaranty said his bank\'s issue was competitive despite its relatively high premium. The issue, for five ounces at 425 dlrs, was priced at 955 Swiss francs, making a premium over the spot gold price of nearly 36 pct.     Using a Black Sholes options model, he said the issue\'s long, 4.3-year maturity meant the warrants needed an implicit volatility of gold of only 24.5 pct for the option to pay off, which he claimed was lower than the other issues.     But Barrett said the Black Sholes variant Citicorp used pointed to a higher volatily for the Morgan issue and emphasized that the models were at best an inexact science.     And each bank, using its own model, put the implicit volatility needed for its own issue at close to 25 pct.     Whatever the calculation, the issues have received a warm welcome from investors.     Joensson of Goldman Sachs said there was a lot of demand, even among small investors, who were buying 15 or 20 warrants apiece. \"The most sophisticated ones wouldn\'t buy these because the premiums are too high,\" he said.  \n',gold
'Newmont Gold Corp expects gold sales in 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986\'s 474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report.     Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp, said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 as well.  \n',gold
'Pyongyang and a group of Tokyo-based North Korean businessmen plan to resurrect a North Korean goldmine and boost annual output to almost one tonne within two years from 600 pounds at present, said Li Sangsu, a spokesman for Unzan Mine Development Co, the venture partner.     Work will begin on April 3 and the company aims to increase output to 10 tonnes within a decade to pay off Pyongyang\'s 70 billion yen debt to 30 Japanese companies, Li added.     \"We expect this mine to be worth about 2,000 billion yen in gold deposits,\" he said.     The mine, started in 1896 by a U.S. Company, is one of six or seven virtually untapped mines in the Unzan area, 94 miles north of Pyongyang, Li said.     Li said modern equipment and advanced technology would increase yields. \"Up to now, the mining was done with antiquated methods and basic equipment.\"     The gold mine scheme is the latest in a series of moves by North Korea to clear its debts to Japanese creditors.     Earlier this year, Pyongyang tried and failed to pay off part of its debt with several tonnes of fish.  \n',gold
'President Alan Garcia said Peru has found gold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungle region near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.     He told reporters yesterday the deposits, located at four sites near the town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of 100 tonnes of gold.     Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlr treatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore to provide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year, he added.     Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located at Tamborapa, Pachapidiana, and a zone between the Cenepa and Santiago rivers.  \n',gold
'President Alan Garcia said Peru has found gold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungle region near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.     He told reporters the deposits, located at four sites near the town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of 100 tonnes of gold.     Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlr treatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore to provide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year, he added.     Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located at Tamborapa, Pachapidiana and a zone between the Cenepa and Santiago rivers.  \n',gold
'The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70 pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture was granted an additional concession of land in Ghana to seek and mine gold.     The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture an additional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana, contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier.     The original concession appears to have a substantial amount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or 6/100 ounces, of gold per tonne. But the venture has no firm estimate on the costs of extracting the gold and no assurances can be given that the reserves can be mined profitably, the company said. It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on the newly granted land but added the land seems to be similar in geological characteristics to the original land.  \n',gold
'Placer Pacific Ltd said it hopes the Papua New Guinea government will approve development of the Misima gold project next month, following the submission of its final environmental plan in Port Moresby today.     This completes the major documentation required to gain official approval to proceed, Placer said in a statement.     Placer has estimated the epithermal deposit, located on the eastern half of Misima Island off the southeastern coast of Papua New Guinea, contains proven and probable reserves of 62.1 mln tonnes grading 1.35 grams/tonne gold and 20 grams/tonne silver, and exploration is continuing.  \n',gold
'Placer Pacific Ltd said it will undertake a full feasibility study of Western Australia\'s Big Bell gold prospect.     Results of an economic evaluation of the find, in which Placer has an option with Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd (ACM) to earn a 50 pct interest, were encouraging enough to warrant a full study, Placer said in a statement.     Big Bell, in the Murchison goldfield 540 km north east of Perth, was founded in 1904. Between 1937 and 1955 it yielded 22.8 tonnes of gold and 7.8 tonnes of silver while milling about 30,000 tonnes of ore a month.     Placer has said the prospect has an estimated 14 mln tonnes of ore with a three-gram-per-tonne concentration accessible by open-pit mining and a further 4.5 mln tonnes with a 4.4-gram-a-tonne concentration between 300 and 600 meters underground.     It said it was obliged to produce the feasibility study no later than December 31 this year by which time it would have spent three mln dlrs on Big Bell.     If the results are positive and a commitment to develop made then construction would take about 12 months, Placer said.  \n',gold
'The climate for precious metals is improving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fears and the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets, brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said.     Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms due to a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relative to gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. In March the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67.     The supply/demand position has improved in the past year, and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver is modest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added.     The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely to continue in the short term.     A period of consolidation might be necessary before prices attempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long as the dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silver was positive.     However silver was less likely to continue to outpace the other metals by such a margin, Montagu said.  \n',gold
'A proposed sales tax on gold transactions could put a damper on the Tokyo market and encourage a shift of trading to Hong Kong and Singapore, senior vice president and Tokyo branch manager of Credit Suisse Paul Hofer told a press conference.     \"If you impose five pct on both buy and sell transactions, Tokyo participants in the gold market could be out of business,\" he said. The tax would create such a spread that Japanese would be unable to compete in the international market, he added.     \"How can the government really raise taxes if the system they impose is prohibitive of generating business?\" he said.     The government now imposes a 15 pct tax on physical trades exceeding 37,500 yen for gold jewellery and coins and a 2.5 yen tax per 10,000 yen on futures transactions, gold dealers said.     The new five pct tax would be imposed on companies trading more than 100 mln yen a year and apply to paper gold trades, gold deposits with banks and trading of gold bars as well as that of jewellery and coins, dealers said.     However, the tax would lower the rate on jewellery and coins to only five pct from the current 15 pct, they said.     Hofer said in 1982 Switzerland had imposed a 5.6 pct gold turnover tax on Jan 1, 1980, but abolished it on Oct 1, 1986.     A study by one of the Swiss banks showed that in early 1980, the first year of the tax, the volume for all Swiss banks fell by up to 25 pct compared with 1978 and 1979, Hofer said.     Transactions of paper gold also fell up to 75 pct of the volume prior to imposition of the tax, he said.     While gold transactions in Switzerland decreased, the volume of trades outside the country, particularly in London and Luxembourg, increased between 10-25 pct, Hofer said.     Japan is a major importer of gold, buying a yearly average just under 200 tonnes, gold dealers said.     Last year Japan imported about 600 tonnes of gold, but the government had bought about 300 tonnes for minting coins to commemorate the 60th year of Emperor Hirohito\'s reign, dealers said.     Gold trading in Tokyo is dominated mainly by Japanese trading companies, while Credit Suisse is the major foreign participant.     Daily turnover in the Tokyo spot market ranges between one and 10 tonnes with the average around three tonnes, while futures turnover amounts to about four tonnes, gold dealers said.     \"All of us are concerned daily with the fact that the Tokyo market is growing, that Japan is becoming one of the three major financial markets in the world ... And in my personal opinion I think it would be a very big mistake to put a damper on this positive growth or developments by imposing such a tax,\" Hofer said.     \"I don\'t think it fits the philosophy of an internationalising market,\" he added.     Officials of several major Japanese trading houses, attending the press conference, said they supported Credit Suisse\'s call for the government not to impose the gold tax.  \n',gold
'Gold rose by about 50 U.S. Cents an ounce, following a statement by President Ronald Reagan that the arms-for-hostages deal with Iran \"was a mistake,\" dealers said.     Bullion rose to 409.40/90 dlrs from an initial low of 408.90/409.40. This compares with the opening of 409.00/50 and New York\'s close of 410.00/50.     Dealers noted mild short-covering in the metal after some initial selling by local investors. Trading was fairly quiet this morning partly owed to the slow U.S. Dollar activities, they added.     However, Reagan\'s remarks had only a short-lived bullish impact on the gold price, which is now stabilising at 409.10/60 dlrs, dealers said.     On the local market, the metal traded in a narrow range of 3,800 and 3,805 H.K. Dlrs a tael against yesterday\'s 3,778 close.  \n',gold
'Seven managers and employees at General Mining Union Corp Ltd\'s Kinross Mines Ltd will face charges of culpable homicide following last year\'s disaster when 177 gold miners died, the Attorney General\'s Office said.     The mineworkers were killed last September at Kinross when a fire set off toxic fumes which suffocated miners underground.     Three of the accused face alternative charges of breaking safety regulations set out in the Mines and Works Act.     The spokesman said the case would probably be heard in Witbank Regional Court, near Kinross, in mid-May.  \n',gold
'The gold mining industry had another \"exceptional year\" in 1986 with tonnage milled, revenues and profits reaching high levels, the Chamber of Mines said.     Nearly 108 mln tons of ore was milled, three pct higher than the prior year, while revenues rose 17 pct to 16.5 billion rand and profits increased 6.5 pct to 8.31 billion rand, the Chamber reported.     The profit rise was achieved despite substantial cost increases and a 26.1 pct rise in capital expenditures to 2.42 billion rand, it said.     The chamber said that a \"comparatively buoyant gold price allowed mines to continue the practise of mining lower grade ores which has characterised recent years.\"     It said the industry now mines to an average grade of 5.63 grams per ton compared with 6.09 grams per ton in 1985.     Gold output for the year declined five pct to 638 tons compared with the previous year\'s 671 tons.  \n',gold
'Sigma Mines (Quebec) Ltd, 65 pct owned by Dome Mines Ltd, said its Sigma Mine had proven and probable reserves at the end of 1986 of 4,902,940 tons, with an average grade of 0.139 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said the reserves are equivalent to 10 years future production at current milling rates.     The reserves comprise 1,640,779 tons proven reserves grading an average of 0.163 ounces of gold a ton and 3,262,161 tons probable reserves grading an average of 0.127 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said it changed its 1986 reserve reporting method following Dome Mines\' previously reported move to adopt general industry practice of reporting proven and probable ore reserves.     Prior to 1986, Sigma conservatively reported only proven reserves that could be mined without future development costs.     Proven reserves as of December 31, 1985 were 978,000 tons grading an average of 0.194 ounces of gold a ton, equivalent to about two years future production.  \n',gold
'Some 7,000 black miners went on strike at South African gold and coal mines, the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said.     A NUM spokesman said 6,000 workers began an underground sit-in at the Grootvlei gold mine, owned by General Union Mining Corp, to protest the transfer of colleagues to different jobs.    He said about 1,000 employees of Anglo American Corp\'s New Vaal Colliery also downed tools but the reason for the stoppage was not immediately clear. Officials of the two companies were not available for comment and the NUM said it was trying to start negotiations with management.  \n',gold
'Some 7,000 black workers returned to work after staging one-day strikes at two mines on Monday, the National Union of Mineworkers and the companies that own the mines said.     About 6,000 miners resumed work at the Grootvlei gold mine east of Johannesburg after protesting the transfer of colleagues to other jobs at the same mine, owners General Mining Union Corp Ltd GENM.J said.     The union said about 1,000 mineworkers at a new coal facility owned by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd ANGL.J also returned to their jobs on Tuesday.     The workers at Anglo\'s Vaal Colliery south of Johannesburg had struck to protest the alleged refusal of officials of the South African homeland of Transkei to allow miners to attend a funeral in the homeland, a union spokesman said.  \n',gold
'South Africa gold holdings rose 172.56 mln rand to 4.17 billion rand in March after rising 39 mln rand to 4.0 billion in February, Reserve Bank figures show.     In volume terms gold holdings rose to 5.51 mln ounces in March from 5.26 mln ounces in February, valued at 757.24 rand an ounce for March versus 754.59 rand an ounce for February.     Total gold and foreign assets rose to 6.30 billion rand from 6.22 billion, of which the gold content increased to 66.22 pct from 64.3 pct.     Foreign bills remained at zero in March while investments fell slightly to 105.69 mln rand from February\'s 106.56 mln rand and other assets to 2.02 billion rand from 2.11 billion, the figures showed. Total liabilities fell to 12.21 billion rand in March after rising to 13.62 billion in February.  \n',gold
'St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans to proceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold property in northwestern Ontario.     It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continue underground development and obtain operating permits and another 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to complete underground development, construct a mill and provide the infrastructure needed to put the mine into commercial production.     St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits were granted in time, it would start gold production in the second half of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate of about 40,000 troy ounces.     The company said the property is estimated to contain over 500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining project covers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reserves of 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton.     It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150 tons of ore daily.     St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not been tested at depth or along strike to the east and west and exploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property and the adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property.     The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silver deposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota has been shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading 0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton.  It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibility study is nearing completion.  \n',gold
'Starrex Mining Corp Ltd said a sharp  rise in its share price is based on speculation for favorable results from its current underground diamond drilling program at its 35 pct owned Star Lake gold mine in northern Saskatchewan.     Starrex Mining shares rose 40 cts to 4.75 dlrs in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.     The company said drilling results from the program which started in late February are encouraging, \"but it is too soon for conclusions.\" Starrex did not disclose check assay results from the exploration program.  \n',gold
'Syngold Exploration Inc and Corp Falconbridge Copper said they defined undiluted reserves of 911,000 tons of ore with an average grade of 0.43 ounces of gold per ton in two separate deposits on the Deka property located at Noranda, Quebec.     Assay results from 20 suface holes drilled on 250 foot centers indicate that the Donalda number one deposit contains possible reserves of 611,000 tons at an average grade of 0.48 ounces of gold per ton.     The number one deposit\'s reserves are contained between a vertical depth of 750 and 1200 feet at a strike length of 900 feet.     Reserves of the Donalda number-two deposit, located 1,000 feet below the number-one deposit, were recalculated at 300,000 tons with an average grade of 0.33 ounces of gold per ton.     Syngold has earned a 20 pct interest in the Deka property from the operator, Corp Falconbridge Copper.  \n',gold
'Technigen Platinum corp said initial results of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicel platinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate extensive near-surface zones highly enriched in gold, platinum and palladium.     The metals were found in rocks on the periphery of a sulphide deposit.     It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206 ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were found over a drill section of 13 feet.  \n',gold
'American Eagle gold bullion coin sales are projected at 3.1 mln troy ounces in their first year on the market, well above the target of 2.2 mln, Donna Pope, director of the U.S. Mint, told journalists.     World sales, which began on October 20, 1986, reached 2.193 mln ounces in less than six months of sales. This made it world market leader with a share of 37 pct in 1986, Pope said.     Pope said that in volume terms, nearly half of all gold Eagle sales were within North America, roughly 40 pct were in Europe and about eight pct in Asia.     She said despite introduction of several new gold bullion coins on the market recently, the Mint is aiming to preserve the Eagle\'s strong market share with extensive publicity.     The Mint uses mainly newly mined U.S. Gold for the coins, as long as this is available at market prices. The remaining gold is taken either from U.S. Treasury stocks, or from the open market, Pope said.     Gold analysts said the Eagle is facing competition here from the Canadian Maple Leaf, and also to a lesser extent from the South African Krugerrand. Some estimated the Maple Leaf\'s West German market share at 60 pct.     The figures may be distorted, as many German investors buy gold bullion in Switzerland or Luxembourg to escape the 14 pct value-added tax imposed here. Including the tax, the one-ounce coins traded today at 906 marks, they said.     Competition may also come from new gold coins, including Belgium\'s ECU, which began sales today. Britain and Australia also have plans to mint gold bullion coins, the analysts said.  \n',gold
'U.S. mine production of gold rose to 244,900 troy ounces in December from 244,749 ounces in November, the U.S. Interior Department\'s Bureau of Mines said.     U.S. imports of gold in December were 692,700 ounces, vs 2,011,754 ounces in November and 611,811 ounces in December, 1985.     Gold exports totaled 243,191 ounces in December, vs November\'s 374,468 ounces and 350,078 ounces in December a year earlier.     Mine production of gold in the 12-month period Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 2,951,151 ounces, vs 2,475,436 ounces over the same period in 1985.     Gold imports in Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 15,749,447 ounces, vs 8,225,999 ounces for the same period in 1985, while exports stood at 4,612,919 ounces and 3,966,678 ounces over the respective periods, the bureau said.  \n',gold
'Viceroy Resource Corp said recent drilling on the Lesley Ann deposit extended the high-grade mineralization over a width of 600 feet.     Assays ranged from about 0.35 ounces of gold per short ton over a 150-foot interval at a depth of 350 to 500 feet to about 1.1 ounces of gold per ton over a 65-foot interval at a depth of 200 to 410 feet.  \n',gold
'Westmin Resources Ltd said it plans to increase capacity at its Myra Falls, British Columbia, base and precious metal mine and mill complex by 33 pct to 4,400 short tons of ore a day, subject to regulatory approvals.     The company said the expansion will cost about 24 mln dlrs and could be in operation by 1988.     Economies of scale from the expansion should pay back net expansion cost in less than one year, Westmin said.     The Myra Falls complex processed 3,257 tons of ore a day during 1986. Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln lbs of copper, 96.2 mln lbs of zinc and 777,000 lbs of lead, a company spokesman said.     Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln pounds of copper, 96.2 mln pounds of zinc and 777,000 pounds of lead, a company spokesman said.  \n',gold