'The American Pork Congress kicks off tomorrow, March 3, in Indianapolis with 160 of the nations pork producers from 44 member states determining industry positions on a number of issues, according to the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC.     Delegates to the three day Congress will be considering 26 resolutions concerning various issues, including the future direction of farm policy and the tax law as it applies to the agriculture sector. The delegates will also debate whether to endorse concepts of a national PRV (pseudorabies virus) control and eradication program, the NPPC said.     A large trade show, in conjunction with the congress, will feature the latest in technology in all areas of the industry, the NPPC added.  \n',livestock
'The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, announced at this year\'s American Pork Congress, APC, that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two parts in 1988.     Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business session only and will continue to be the first week of March.     The trade show is being changed into a new international event called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be held in June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said.     Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision to spilt the show and Congress came about because there are producers who never get to see the trade show floor.     \"It makes sense that we divide the business session from the trade show,\" Sweet said.  \n',livestock
'Australian beef output is forecast to decline to 1.34 mln tonnes carcass weight in 1987 and 1.36 mln in 1988 from 1.44 mln in 1986, the Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corp (AMLC) said.     Exports of beef/veal are also predicted to decline to 480,000 tonnes shipped weight in 1987 from 515,000 in 1986, and then rally to 490,000 in 1988, the AMLC said in a summary of its bi-annual meat and livestock forecasts.     It sees cattle numbers remaining at around the 1986 level of 23.2 mln beasts in both years because herd rebuilding is expected to be slower than previously forecast.     Beef producers are becoming more confident that higher returns in the market, both domestically and overseas, will continue, the AMLC said.     The slow herd build-up and the forecast lower production is expected to bring about a slight drop in both export and domestic consumption this year, it said.     The forecast does not assume a turnaround in production levels until late next year.     It said the outlook for beef exports as a proportion of output remains much the same as last year when it was around 55 pct of total production. In 1985 it was 52 pct.     The increase in exports of beef as a percentage of production has mainly been attributed to the decline in the Australian dollar, the AMLC said.     It also forecast that Australia\'s four major markets, the U.S., Japan, Canada and Taiwan, will continue to dominate the chilled and frozen beef export markets. They take collectively around 94 pct of total Australian exports.  \n',livestock
'The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 380 head of dairy cattle to Kuwait, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The dairy cattle are for shipment on or before May 31, 1987, it said.     The bonus of 1,465.00 dlrs per head was made to American Marketing Services, Inc, and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory, it said.     An additional 761 head of dairy cattle are still available to Gulf countries (kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced October 30, 1986, it said.  \n',livestock
'The Commodity Credit Corporation has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 760 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The delivery period for the cattle is April, 1987-June, 1988, it said.     The bonus of 1,870.00 dlrs per head was made to Esmah Nevada Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory.     An additional 7,199 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, the department said.  \n',livestock
'The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 13 head of dairy cattle to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonus awarded was 1,505.00 dlrs per head and was made to Brown Swiss Enterprises Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventories.     The cattle are for delivery during March 9-September 30, 1987.     The department said the purchase completes the Export Enhancement Program initiative for dairy cattle to Morocco announced on April 16, 1986.  \n',livestock
'The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 186 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the cattle are for delivery May 7-June 7, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 1,888.06 dlrs per head.     The bonus was made to First Interstate Trading Co and will be paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said.     An additional 7,959 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, it said.  \n',livestock
'The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 75 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonus awarded was 1,459.00 dlrs per head and was made to T.K. International Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks.     The cattle are for delivery during March-June, 1987, it said.     An additional 3,925 head of dairy cattle are still available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enahcnement Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said.  \n',livestock
'Over 750,000 head of cattle are suffering the effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of a prolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattle producing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.     The province produces 23 pct of Cuba\'s beef and is the island\'s number two province in milk production. Granma said 20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.     The newspaper said a \"cattle emergency\" had been decreed and the cattle are being rounded up.     Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar cane conditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleaned before being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed the residue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head have been sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.     Despite Cuba\'s ambitous cattle development plans, beef rationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana, each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every 18 days.     In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically no rain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands are parched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes of silage projected in its annual plan.     Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than 50 pct of normal precipitation.  \n',livestock
'The 350 mln Ecu three-year package of social and structural measures agreed early today by European Community farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmers for reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commission sources said.     The ministers agreed that under this \"extensification\" scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cut output of specific products by at least 20 pct.     The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal and wine, they added.     Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts by reducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce their number of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case, farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacity for output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.     The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed but will be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit on the production they forego.     The sources said the package also contains provisions for payments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protecting or improving the environment.     It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favoured farming areas would be extended to crops. At present such allowances are available only for livestock.     The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research into alternative farming techniques, the sources added.     At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen said the Commission is also working on proposals to enable the EC and member states to provide direct income supports for relatively poor farmers.     Andriessen did not give full details, but said member state aid would be subject to \"strict criteria to avoid distortion of competition.\"     EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive a difficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplus production.     The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last night proposals to pay \"early retirement\" pensions to farmers aged 55 or over who gave up production. Those who took their land completely out of farm production, rather than passing it on to their heirs, would have received more generous payments.     Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revised proposals along these lines in an effort to get a scheme agreed.  \n',livestock
'Haiti\'s agriculture minister yesterday announced his department will permit the importation of 730 black Creole pigs, which had been banned from the island nation since 1983.     Between 1981 and 1983, a team of Canadian veterinarians funded by the United States, Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica supervised the slaughter of all Haiti\'s 1,200,000 pigs under a program to eradicate African swine flu.     Today\'s announcement that Catholic Relief Services (CARITAS) can import 730 Jamaican pigs comes after months of protests by farmers who had owned 90 pct of the slaughtered pigs.  \n',livestock
'World animal health experts called for a campaign to eradicate the lethal cattle disease Rinderpest in Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan, a statement from a Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) meeting here said.     Some 230 mln dlrs is needed over two years to vaccinate the entire susceptible cattle population in Bangladesh and Pakistan and high-risk areas of the other three countries. In India some 240 mln cattle are estimated to be at risk from the disease.     The experts recommended the campaign be funded mostly by the governments of the five nations, with help from the FAO. Similar campaigns are needed in Egypt, Yemen, Iraq and Iran.  \n',livestock
'International Minerals and Chemical Corp said its board approved a 50 mln dlrs budget over the next several years to build production facilities for a newly developed product to be used to improve the lean weight of hogs.     The new product, porcine somatotropin (PST) is described as a natural bio-synthetic protein that improves the lean weight and rate of weight gain, as well as reduces the cost of feed for market hogs, the company said.     Specific details of the PST production project, including sites for proposed facilities and engineering plans, were not disclosed. International Minerals said it set a completion target for the spring of 1989, by which time necessary Food and Drug Administration approvals are expected to be obtained.  \n',livestock
'Japan\'s plan to cut beef intervention prices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boost demand because of strict supply controls and a complex distribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.     \"Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meeting consumers\' demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal,\" a Housewives Association of Japan official said.     Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farm markets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, which maintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.     Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbled beef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against 1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.     The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceiling at 1,325 against 1,420.     Ministry officials said the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operations to help keep wholesale beef prices within the intervention price zone.     The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amount set by the government under a quota system. When wholesale prices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks, both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef when prices are below.     But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beef stocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.     Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat Export Federation, tolds the two pct cut in prices is a step toward closing the gap with European Community prices, about half those in Japan.     But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S. Meat exporters because of Japan\'s rigid and complicated distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.     The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices are high mainly because of distribution problems and high production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.     American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C. Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.     But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S. Meat exporters because of Japan\'s rigid and complicated distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.     The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices are high mainly because of distribution problems and high production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.     American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C. Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.     But industry sources said it is unclear how much demand will pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharp reduction in intervention prices.     U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week he will ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when he visits here next month.     In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by 9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.     In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from 168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wants to keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct.  \n',livestock
'The Agriculture Ministry is expected to reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in 1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been set yet, industry sources said.     Production prices, the basis for setting intervention prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.     Last November an advisory panel urged the government to work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to levels closer to international values, the sources added.     In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.     The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock operation in the wholesale market.     The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is 1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.     The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is 1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540 yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.     They said the domestic beef intervention price influences imported beef selling prices on the domestic market.     Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or processors in line with the standard price of other beef categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef prices, they said.  \n',livestock
'Japan\'s Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago.     The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency\'s beef import share. Japan\'s beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87.  \n',livestock
'The USDA monthly cold storage report for meats is expected to have little, if any, effect on livestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Monday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk of direction, livestock analysts said.     The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the 22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals may provide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said.     \"I think the market is going to be looking at some other things and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets might be early next week,\" Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GH Miller, said.     Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futures will be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hog marketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business was completed this week and there may be less aggressive interest for pork in general next week.     \"We needed some help from the cold storage report to avert a possible setback next week in the pork complex,\" Levitt said.     Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the belly figure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks were down 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the average expectation and actually showed a lighter than expected decline from last month due to an adjustment to last month\'s holdings, they said.     However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put in storage has been light since the beginning of March and this is a potentially bullish situation.     Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri, said, \"I would not look for (belly) storage during the next month or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will be less.\"  \n',livestock
'Delegates to the American Pork Congress will decide whether or not they want mandatory production controls when they vote on the official pork producer policy wednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.     The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened to both sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman Berkley Bedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economics for the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention in Indianapolis.  \n',livestock
'Congressmen from beef producing states and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry  urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Korea to open up their markets to imports of beef.     Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestock issues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration should push hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea. Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.     U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied \"we\'re not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea.\" She noted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a senior Korean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutter and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo in April for discussions on farm trade issues.     Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400 tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has banned beef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S. pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.     In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairs for the National Cattlemens Association said \"the Congress, administration and the industry must take a strong, tough and united stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business and that we expect them to open their markets.\"  \n',livestock
'U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he would not agree to an extension of the 18-month whole dairy herd buyout program set to expire later this year.     Speaking at the Agriculture Department to representatives of the U.S. National Cattlemen\'s Association, Lyng said some dairymen asked the program be extended.     But he said the Reagan administration, which opposed the whole herd buyout program in the 1985 farm bill, would not agree to an extension.     The program begun in early 1986, is to be completed this summer. U.S. cattlemen bitterly opposed the scheme, complaining that increased dairy cow slaughter drove cattle prices down last year.  \n',livestock
'Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs for control and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of a national safe drug use program.     The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradication program at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC\'s PRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.     The PRV committee received results of a three year, five state pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate in eradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The project was jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.     \"Primarily it (the program) allows individual states to deal with their own problems according to a timetable that suits them best,\" Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC\'s PRV oversight committee said.     In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a plan asking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe drug use program.     The program would establish better relationships between producers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a quality assurance program in pork production, according to the plan.     \"This program basically communicates to the FDA that we are concerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugs safely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue in effect,\" Wehler said.  \n',livestock
'The National Pork Board announced at the American Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refunds under the legislative checkoff program are running less than expected.     The Board oversees collection and distribution of funds from the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farm bill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois and chairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs was collected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct, considerably less than expected.     \"We believe that this indicates good producer support for the new checkoff. We\'re getting good compliance from markets, from packers and from dealers,\" Rosendale said.  \n',livestock
'Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S. congress not to change the farm bill. While there are no specific pork items in that legislation, feed grain prices directly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.     Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said \"to have unpredictable changes come along periodically makes it very difficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption.\"     Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections but that\'s a price pork producers are willing to pay for legislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.     Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution that Congress and the administration should act swiftly to identify problems in the farm credit system.     Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected Vice President of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted a program that all commodity groups can work with and bring a  resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.     Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council will work to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to save or create any one credit system.   \n',livestock
'Livestock analysts expect renewed bull spreading in live cattle futures following yesterday\'s USDA 7-state cattle on feed report.     The USDA reported high placements in February, which may weigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continued strong marketings during the month will support the April contract.     Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50 cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analysts said.     Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattle on feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst Tom O\'Hare. \"They have no place to send the grain,\" he said.     Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support while the current discount of deferred months to the cash market may offset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.     \"The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,\" said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added that even though placements came in above the average trade guess, many traders had expected high placements.     Placements are not that negative, especially since the technical correction in June and August live cattle futures since last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.     He said the current marketing posture will provide added support to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have been running at a heavier than expected pace.     Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that with the number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning of the year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. But the report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a year ago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.     \"So far we haven\'t seen any decline in marketings. They (feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they had intended for the first quarter, which is a bullish development,\" Levitt said.     Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part of March are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not falling behind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace.  \n',livestock
'The National Weather Service said a powerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma was spreading snow from western and central Kansas across much of Nebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota.     Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, eastern Kansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a few thundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lower Mississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida.     Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts were reported across much of the Plains, causing considerable blowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued this morning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warning was issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska.     Weather advisories were posted for this morning over central Kansas and central and southeast sections of South Dakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate.     Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions of the central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for this morning across the eastern half of Kansas.     A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska. Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected to continue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday.     Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestock advisories were posted this morning across central and southeast portions of South Dakota.     As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winter storm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, late tonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota.     Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect this morning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and Tecas Panhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across the mountains and deserts of southern California for strong gusty winds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for today along the central California Coast.     Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley through the central Appalachians to the central Atlantic Coast and New England.  \n',livestock
'U.S. factory usage of lard in the production of both edible and inedible products during February totaled 22.0 mln lbs, vs a revised 20.2 mln lbs in January, according to Census Bureau figures.     In the year-earlier period, usage, which includes hydrogenated vegetable and animal fats and other oils in process, amounted to 31.4 mln lbs.     Usage in February comprised 16.6 mln lbs of edible products and 5.4 mln lbs of inedible products.     Total lard usage in the 1986/87 marketing season, which began October 1, amounted to 125.2 mln lbs, vs 185.6 mln lbs in the year-ago period.  \n',livestock
'The American Meat Institute, AME, said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate against a European Community meat inspection requirement.     AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would file a petition challenging Korea\'s ban of U.S. meat products.     Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.     \n',livestock
'Four U.S. meat processors have asked the federal government to relax a labelling requirement which they said discourages the use of mechanically separated meat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The petition, filed by Bob Evans Farms, Odom Sausage Co, Sara Lee Corp and Owens Country Sausage, asks USDA to allow mechanically separated meat to be listed on product labels as the species from which it was derived.     For example, \"pork\" would be listed on the ingredients statement instead of \"mechanically separated pork.\"     Under the petition, the calcium content of the meat product would have to be stated on the label and the mechanically separated meat could constitute no more than 10 pct of the meat and poultry portion of the product.     Mechanically separated meat is a high-protein, low-cost product that has been approved for use since 1978, USDA said.     Current regulations allow use of mechanically separated ingredients at levels up to 20 pct of the meat and poultry product, but require it to be listed in the ingredient statement as \"mechanically separated (species),\" USDA said.     USDA said the petitioning firms claimed companies avoid using mechanically separated meat in their products because the term carries an \"unwarranted negative connotation\" in the minds of many consumers. The petitioners also noted that no similar regulation exists for poultry products.     Mechanically separated meat is made by placing carcass parts, which usually have been hand-trimmed but still have some remaining meat, into specialized processing equipment.  \n',livestock
'U.S. factory production of inedible tallow and grease amounted to 421.5 mln lbs in February, vs a revised 471.5 mln lbs the previous month and 419.2 mln lbs in the year-ago period, the Census Bureau said.     The bureau placed February factory production of edible tallow at 96.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 111.4 mln lbs the previous month and 122.7 mln lbs in February a year earlier.     It estimated factory and warehouse stocks of inedible tallow on February 28 at 410.7 mln lbs, vs a revised 351.6 mln the previous month and 361.9 mln in February, 1986.     End-Feb stocks of edible tallow amounted to 41.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 40.1 mln lbs and 48.6 mln lbs in their respective periods.     Factory consumption of inedible tallow and grease in February was assessed at 238.3 mln lbs, vs a revised 250.4 mln lbs a month earlier and 220.5 mln lbs in the year-ago period.     During February, factories used 65.3 mln lbs of edible tallow, vs a revised 71.8 mln and 84.6 mln, respectively.     Total factory production and consumption of tallow in the 1987 marketing season, which began Jan 1, vs the 1986 season, were as follows, in mln lbs --    Production -- 1987     1986     Inedible    893.0    920.1       Edible    208.3    274.7  Consumption --     Inedible    488.7    473.7       Edible    137.1    176.4  \n',livestock
'U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove all beef import restrictions when he visits there next month.     Lyng\'s remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma State University today.     \"We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedom of choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese cameras and tape recorders in this room. We know they\'d buy more beef if they had the opportunity,\" Lyng said.  \n',livestock
'The U.S. Agriculture Department proposes to rename the \"USDA Good\" grade of beef to \"USDA Select.\"     The department said the proposed change is in response to a petition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and would present a more positive image of this grade of beef and help calorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.     Under current rules, the \"good\" grade of meat has less marbling and fat than the \"prime\" or \"choice\" grades, it said.     Standards for all of the grades would remain unchanged under the proposal.  \n',livestock
'The U.S. Agriculture Department said an estimated 8,700 head of dairy cattle were slaughtered during the week ending March 13 as a result of the Whole Herd Dairy Buyout program.     The cumulative total of cattle slaughtered under the program from April 1 through March 13 is estimated at 1,032,300 head, it said.     Cumulative meat purchases through March 27 total 376,897,330 lbs, the department said.     Dairy cattle reported for export under the program for the period April 1 through March 27 totaled an estimated 55,055 head, the department said.     Live cattle exports are in addition to the meat purchase requirements, the department said.  \n',livestock
'U.S. Agriculture Department animal health officials are conducting a national survey of live-bird markets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, an infectious viral disease of poultry, the department said.     The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-bird markets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and once the dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests to determine any past or present exposure to avian influenza viruses, it said.     In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs to control and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds, it said.     The survey is expected to be completed by April 15.  \n',livestock
'Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak of the animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which prompted Botswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabwean meat products.     Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawose said it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabeleland province and that all measures were being taken to contain it from spreading. \"The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwe\'s beef exports is being examined,\" he added in a statement.     Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products to neighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef to the European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs.  \n',livestock