'Argentine vegetable oils shipments during January/December 1986 totalled 1,796,121 tonnes, against 1,577,722 tonnes in the same period of 1985, the Argentine Grain Board said.     Breakdown was as follows: cotton 9,000 (27,900), sunflower 954,303 (840,440), linseed 119,954 (138,944), groundnutseed 26,248 (26,246), soybean 669,094 (524,715), tung 9,047 (11,363), olive 2,417 (4,125), maize 6,058 (3,989), rape nil (nil) , grape nil (nil), the board added.     Shipments during December 1986 amounted to 102,870 tonnes, against 108,514 tonnes in the same month of 1985.     The breakdown, was as follows, in tonnes:     Cotton 5,000 (nil), sunflower 25,156 (23,713), linseed 6,127 (5,990), groundnutseed nil (738), soybean 65,759 (76,371), tung 645 (730), olive 183 (660), maize nil (312), rape nil (nil), grape nil (nil), the board said.         The ten principal destinations during January/December 1986, with comparative figures for the same period of 1985 in brackets, were as follows, in tonnes:     Iran 212,043 (209,177), Holland 204,558 (215,784), Soviet Union 173,060 (266,389), Egypt 163,119 (164,252), Algeria 116,330 (11,492), South Africa 105,230 (110,064), Brazil 101,599 (103,142), Cuba 89,957 (98,740), United States 80,109 (44,826), India 67,182 (17,403), the board said.  \n',veg-oil
'Bangladesh floated an international tender for the purchase of 10,000 tonnes of refined soyabean oil for delivery at Chittagong/Chalna port by April 24, Food Ministry officials said.     The tender closes March 28 at 0500 GMT.  \n',veg-oil
'A British minister said that a proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats would raise the price of fish and chips and he pledged the government would fight against it.     Lord Belstead, a junior agriculture minister, told the House of Lords the tax would raise the price of raw materials used in many processed foods by about 100 pct.     He said revenue should not be raised by taxing the consumer and called the proposal \"repugnant.\"  \n',veg-oil
'Three consecutive days of talks between management and unions aimed at ending the three month old strike at Cargill U.K. Ltd\'s oilseed processing plant at Seaforth, ended yesterday without resolving the situation, although some progress was made, a company spokesman said.     Fresh talks have been scheduled for next Tuesday, he said.  \n',veg-oil
'The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has reallocated two mln dlrs in credit gurantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. protein meals to cover sales of vegetable oil and tallow to El Salvador, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The action reduces coverage for sales of protein meals to 14 mln dlrs from 16 mln dlrs and creates new lines of one mln dlrs for tallow and/or greases and one mln dlrs for vegetable oils, the department said.     All sales under the credit guarantee lines must be registered and exported by Sepember 30, 1987, it said.     The guarantee rates include a charge to provide for a yearly interest rate coverage of up to 4.5 pct on the guaranteed value, the department said.  \n',veg-oil
'Contract terms for trade in coconut oil are to be changed from long tons to tonnes with effect from the Aug/Sep contract onwards, Dutch vegetable oil traders said.     Operators have already started to take account of the expected change and reported at least one trade in tonnes for Aug/Sept shipment yesterday.     The Federation of Oils Seeds and Fats Associations, FOSFA, in London said it had previously advised traders to adopt the metric system for coconut oil transactions to bring the commodity into line with other vegetable oils.  \n',veg-oil
'Whether the European Community\'s Council of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetable oils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain, an EC official said.     \"It is very far from certain that it will go through,\" Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, told reporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association.     Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and West Germany has opposed it in the past.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatened retaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S. soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon.     Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate about agriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling to single out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or put agricultural policy on a special fast track.     \"The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in the framing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers on both sides of the Atlantic,\" he said.  \n',veg-oil
'The proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats is no longer a major issue on the agenda and the EC Commission merely used it as a threat, the West German Feed Stuffs Industry Association (MFI) said.     Association chairman Ulrich Wagner told a news conference the West German feed industry believes the EC does not seriously contemplate the introduction of such a tax because it would end in another transatlantic trade war.     \"We have just avoided a trade conflict with the U.S. And the Commission used the tax threat to calm national farm lobbies.\"     American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague that U.S. Soybean producers were confident the tax would be rejected.     Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, will also visit Bonn on Thursday and Friday.     There are indications the Bonn government will also reject the proposed tax, Wagner said.  \n',veg-oil
'Egypt purchased 46,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil at its import tender yesterday, all for May arrival, traders said.     The business comprised 41,000 tonnes of crude sunflowerseed oil in bulk at prices ranging from 344.25 to 348 dlrs and 5,000 tonnes of refined oil in drums at from 517.50 to 522.50 dlrs per tonne, cost and freight Alexandria, delivered quality terms.  \n',veg-oil
'Egypt rejected all offers at a vegetable oil import tender yesterday for unspecified amounts of sunflowerseed oil and/or cottonseed oil, traders said. It has asked for a renewal of offers on March 24.     Exporters said they were not prepared to offer material on Egypt\'s new landed contract terms which include a clause, \"free from radioactive contamination.\" Offers submitted were on old contract terms, all of which were rejected.  \n',veg-oil
'The sharp decline in soybean crush ratios seen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, has pushed margins below the cost of production at most soybean processing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybean meal and oil.     The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by the National Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78 mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen over the past two months when crush margins surged to the best levels seen in over a year.     Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushed soybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in the weekly crush number.     However, much of that export demand seems to have been met, with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surge in shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the next few months.     U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feed demand is very light for this time of year due to the milder than normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices in an attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said.     Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recent weeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in the nearby March contract today.     \"Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and sold May, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow, which would cause March to gain on deferreds),\" one CBT crush trader said.     \"But they\'ve been bailing out this week because the March has been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if not tomorrow, then later in the month,\" he added.     As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crush ratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans) fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents per bushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last two days.     The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so no processors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitable level, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cut back production to get supplies in line with demand, he added.     With futures down, processors are finding they must bid premiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins.     A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 cents for every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, down sharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and below the average cost of production, cash dealers said.     Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, with little talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. But processors will start halting production in the next few weeks it they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000 tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traders said. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked two cargoes.     The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for June at 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonne cif.     It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. The oil was for June 20/July 20 shipment at 321 dlrs per tonne cif.     Traders said the STC attempted to buy eight cargoes of processed palm oil but its price ideas were too low for exporters. It also failed to secure soyoil for the same reason, they said.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corporation purchased 46,000 tonnes of vegetable oils at its import tender on Friday, market sources said.     The business was for April shipments and comprised 20,000 tonnes of European rapeseed oil at 318 dlrs, 20,000 tonnes of soyoil, believed South American origin, at 314, and 6,000 tonnes of Malaysian rbd palm olein at 347 dlrs, all per tonne cif.     Palm oil sellers were disappointed at the light purchase of rbd olein and early trading saw the market ease nearly 10 dlrs under Malaysian refiner and dealer selling. April shipments traded down to 326 dlrs per tonne, fob.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corp bought one, or possibly two, 6,000 tonne cargoes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender today for Mar 15/Apr 15 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, traders said.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought 20,000 tonnes of optional origin soybean oil and 6,000 tonnes of rbd palm olein at its import tender yesterday, traders said.     Pakistan, however, rejected offers at its tender for 12,000 tonnes of rbd palm oil, but is expected to reenter the market next week, they said.     The STC soyoil purchase was for May 20/Jun 20 shipment at 319 dlrs per tonne cif and the palm olein for Apr 25/May 25 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne.  \n',veg-oil
'India is to partially cover the cost of its Malaysian palm oil imports through a countertrade deal involving the construction of two bridges valued at 20 mln dlrs, an Indian trade source tolds.     He said Malaysia agreed to the oil-for-bridges deal in October after India said it could no longer buy some 700,000 tonnes of palm oil a year because of its trade deficit.     Malaysia has also agreed to barter palm oil for 30 mln dlrs of hydroelectric equipment and is interested in countertrading for Indian iron ore, wheat and other goods and services, he said.  \n',veg-oil
'The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought three cargoes of rbd palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. Late yesterday the market was reporting it had bought one to two cargoes.     The business comprised two 6,000 tonne cargoes for March 15/April 15 shipments at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, and 6,000 tonnes for May at 358 dlrs. The first two cargoes were on a cash basis and the May position was transacted on a 30 pct counter-trade basis, traders said.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia, the world\'s second largest producer of palm oil, has not issued licences to import the commodity, a spokesman for the Ministry of Trade said.     Traders in London said Indonesia has issued licences to local operators to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil starting in April, but the spokesman said this was incorrect.     A spokesman for the Indonesian Importers Association also denied knowledge of the import plan. He said importers would quickly know if licences were issued. The Trade Ministry official said there was no sign of a palm oil shortage in Indonesia.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia has imported palm oil this year and is likely to take more, trade sources said.     They were commenting on a weekend Jakarta report quoting a Ministry of Trade spokesman as saying Indonesia had not issued licences to import the commodity. He also said there was no sign of a shortage of palm oil in Indonesia.     A major palm oil dealer said he shipped Malaysian palm oil to Indonesia in February, additional vessels were loading this month and other vessels had been earmarked for April.     Other operators claimed they had palm oil booked for Indonesia but would not disclose tonnages.     Traders said palm oil production in Indonesia this year had been below expectations and current stocks were low. They said licences were issued at the start of the year to import crude palm oil but were subsequently revised to include RBD olein and RBD oil.     Last week there were rumours in European markets that Indonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil for deliveries commencing April. An Indonesian Ministry of Trade official said this was incorrect.     Some traders here said the total could be more. Others said they could include those issued earlier this year and applications not yet granted.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia will build a crude palm oil terminal at a new port on Batam island, south of Singapore, Research and Technology Minister Yusuf Habibie said.     The terminal will be able to handle 2.1 mln tonnes of crude palm oil from new plantations in northern Sumatra and western Kalimantan (Borneo), he said.     A tender for engineering work on the Asia Port project will be offered mid-year. Habibie did not say when the terminal was expected to be operational.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia has protested to the European Community (EC) about its plan to raise import duties on vegetable oils, which will affect the country\'s palm oil exports to the EC, Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh said.     \"Indonesia, both individually and together with other members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), has protested against the EC plan to increase duties on vegetable oil imports,\" he told Indonesian reporters.     \"We very much regret the community\'s plan,\" he added.     He did not say in what form the Indonesian protest was made.     Indonesia is a major palm oil producer.     According to central bank figures, Indonesia exported 362,700 tonnes of crude palm oil to EC countries in calendar 1985 and 301,400 tonnes in the first 10 months of 1986. Complete 1986 figures are not yet available.     Finance Minister Radius Prawiro said recently that the increase in EC duties would add a new burden to ASEAN countries at a time when they were trying to strengthen their economies in the face of lower commodity prices.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia has issued licences to traders to import palm oil to avert a possible shortage of cooking oil during the Moslem fasting month of Ramadan in May, Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh tolds.     \"We have given permission for a small amount of imports to prevent a shortage during Ramadan,\" he said. He gave no figures for the amount of palm oil to be imported, but said it would come from Malaysia.     Indonesia, the world\'s second largest palm oil producer, earlier denied it had granted palm oil import licences.     Saleh was replying to a question froms after traders in London said Indonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil for delivery in April.     Indonesia, with 168 mln people, is the world\'s largest Moslem country. During Ramadan Moslems fast during the day and have large meals after sunset.     Indonesian crude palm oil exports in the first 11 months of 1986 were 469,100 tonnes, according to central bank figures, against 652,000 tonnes in the whole of calendar 1985.     Indonesia is expanding palm oil output, and Saleh did not explain why there might be a shortage during Ramadan.  \n',veg-oil
'Indonesia\'s palm oil output is expected to rise and exports to increase, the U.S. Embassy said in its annual report on Indonesia\'s agriculture sector.     The Indonesian government said crude palm oil (CPO) output is expected to rise to 1.56 mln tonnes in 1987 and 2.11 mln in 1988, up from a projected 1.45 mln tonnes in 1986 and 1.26 mln in 1985.     The 1986 projection of 1.45 mln tonnes is up from a provisional figure of 1.3 mln tonnes.     A U.S. Embassy assessment puts 1987 output at 1.45 mln tonnes, against 1.35 mln in 1986 and 1.208 mln in 1985.     \"More realistic estimates indicate that 1988 production will be between 1.5 and 1.6 mln tonnes,\" the report said.     The report said the abolition of the five pct CPO export tax, the devaluation of the rupiah in September 1986 and higher international palm oil prices should lead to a modest increase in exports this year.     Exports are forecast to rise to 720,000 tonnes against 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report added.  \n',veg-oil
'Italy\'s response to protests by U.S. Soybean producers about the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats had not been encouraging, American Soybean Association (ASA) board chairman George Fluegel said.     Fluegel, heading one of three U.S. Soybean producer delegations currently on a lobbying tour of EC countries, tolds in an interview meetings with officials from the Italian Foreign and Agricultural ministries had not yielded much to encourage hopes that Italy would vote against the proposed tax.     Fluegel said his delegation had received a negative response from the Italian Agriculture Ministry, but that the attitude of the Foreign Ministry appeared \"more realistic.\"     He said the proposed tax was discriminatory against U.S. Farmers since it was basically asking them to help finance the EC\'s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) on oilseeds.     Asked which EC countries might be expected to vote against the proposed tax, he said, \"Realistically, from the information we\'re getting, it looks like the English, the Germans, hopefully the Netherlands and Denmark.\" His delegation also hoped to convince Belgium to vote against the issue, he added.     Asked what form he thought U.S. Retaliatory action might take in the event of the EC tax proposal being approved, Fluegel said industrial as well as agricultural products could be involved.     U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the EC yesterday it would face serious retaliation if it enacted the tax.     ASA president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague American soybean producers were confident the proposed tax would be rejected.  \n',veg-oil
'The government said it raised the export duty on processed palm oil (PPO) to 64.06 ringgit per tonne from 40.96 ringgit, effective from March 1.     Export duty on crude palm oil (CPO) was unchanged at 16.06 ringgit per tonne.     The gazetted price of PPO rose to 796.8604 ringgit per tonne from 719.8286. That of CPO remained at 617.8238 ringgit.     The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel were left unchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively.  \n',veg-oil
'Malaysian crude palm oil (cpo) production fell to an estimated 270,400 tonnes in February from an estimated 273,300 tonnes in January and 332,995 in February 1986, the Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA) said.     Cpo stocks fell to an estimated 286,440 tonnes in February from 287,940 in January and 653,411 in February last year.     Processed palm oil stocks in February fell to an estimated 193,060 tonnes from 205,060 in January and 225,576 in February 1986.     The January and February figures are subject to revision.  \n',veg-oil
'Malaysian palm kernel output fell to an estimated 80,500 tonnes in February from a revised 83,231 (originally 83,700) in January and 98,393 in February 1986, the Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority said.     Palm kernel stocks dropped to an estimated 45,870 tonnes in February from a revised 55,693 (65,100) in January and 85,595 in February last year, it said.  \n',veg-oil
'The Mexican Secretariat of Commerce has told the U.S. that recent implementation of a 10 pct ad valorem tariff for fixed vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude, refined or purified, was not targeted at sunflower oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said the increase in tariffs on this category which includes sunflower, corn and rapeseed oils, was a reaction to importers using basket categories to avoid paying tariffs on specific high-tariff products.  \n',veg-oil
'Enough European Community (EC) states appear to be opposed to the proposals by the EC Commission for a 330 European currency unit (Ecu) a tonne tax on vegetable oils, fats and marine oils to block adoption by EC ministers, British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said.     He told a news conference held during a meeting here of EC agriculture ministers that Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Portugal were all against the tax.     Between them, these five countries had more than enough votes in the weighted voting system used in EC ministers\' meetings to block a decision, Jopling said.  \n',veg-oil
'Pakistan is likely to import 100,000 tonnes of refined, bleached and deodorised palm oil between April and June this year, vegetable oil dealers said.     They said the import would be financed by the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) which signed an agreement with Pakistan earlier this week in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.     Pakistan had imported 600,000 tonnes of edible oil since the beginning of the current financial year last July, they added. The palm oil would come from Malaysia or Indonesia.  \n',veg-oil
'Pakistan will retender for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipment tomorrow, after failing to take up offers today, palm oil traders said.  \n',veg-oil
'Pakistan will hold an import tender tomorrow for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipments, traders said.  \n',veg-oil
'Pakistan will tender tomorrow for 12,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein tomorrow, split in two equal cargo lots for first and second half April shipments, traders said.     The tender will be financed with Islamic Development Bank credit.  \n',veg-oil
'Malaysian and Indonesian palm oil production is likely to drop sharply this year, due to lower yields, the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said.     The publication expects total Malaysian output during Jan/Sept 1987 to decline by eight pct to 3.05 mln tonnes. For East Malaysia, it put production during the period at 297,000 tonnes after 312,000 a year earlier and for West Malaysia 2.75 mln compared with just over 3.0 mln during Jan/Sept 1986.     It said new plantings had slowed markedly in both countries, but the effects of this will not be felt until 1988-90.     Above normal yields during recent years resulted in trees reacting to the stress by changing the sex ratio to more male inflorescences and/or aborting more female, Oil World said.     Yields per hectare are also likely to be adversely affected this year by insufficient rain up to 25 months ago. This could especially affect trees in West Malaysia during April/June, while in East Malaysia the impact will be in February/April and July/Dec, and in Indonesia July/Sept.     Last year\'s cut in fertilizer use will hit this year\'s yields and bigger effects are expected within the next three years, Oil World said without elaborating.     Opening stocks in West Malaysia at the start of this year were put at only 565,000 tonnes compared with 914,000 in January 1986, Oil World said.     West Malaysian net exports are therefore expected to drop 500,000 tonnes to 2.54 mln during Jan/Sept, while those of East Malaysia are likely to decline by 10 pct to 280,000 tonnes.     Indonesian palm oil production is forecast to fall about eight pct during Jan/May, but to rise from June on. Overall Indonesian output during Jan/Sept is forecast to rise three pct to 933,000 tonnes. Indonesian stocks as of April 1, however, are put at only 65,000 tonnes compared with 160,000 a year ago.     Indonesian export commitments and domestic requirements are both running at high levels, Oil World said, and it expects the country\'s imports to reach a record 110,000 tonnes during Jan/Sept. The bulk of this will arrive during Feb/May, ahead of the April elections and the religious Ramadan festival throughout May, it said.     Indonesian net exports, therefore, may fall by 29 pct to 350,000 tonnes, Oil World said. The possibility that recent Indonesian palm oil purchases will not actually enter the country but be transshipped to other countries to fulfill Indonesia\'s export orders cannot be ruled out, it said.  \n',veg-oil
'Saudi Arabia bought 5,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its import tender yesterday for April 16/25 shipment at 353 dlrs per tonne cost and freight Jeddah, traders said.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the European Community yesterday it will face serious retaliation if it enacts a new tax on products such as U.S. Soybean oil.     Speaking at a news conference before a scheduled speech, Lyng said he did not think the tax, which is still in the discussion stage, would be approved.     He said the U.S. Would take serious retaliatory action because if implemented, the tax would have a considerable impact on U.S. Farmers.  \n',veg-oil
'The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) switched five mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Ecuador to provide for more sales of U.S. vegetable oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. cotton, feedgrains and wheat.     The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized for sales of cotton from 1.5 mln dlrs to 500,000 dlrs, for feedgrains from four mln to two mln and for wheat from 45 mln dlrs to 43 mln dlrs and increases coverage for vegetable oil sales from two mln to seven mln dlrs, the department said.  \n',veg-oil
'American soybean producers and processors are hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats will not be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if it is introduced.     Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Association\'s first vice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administration would not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers and processors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation.     U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letter to EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover more than agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennett said.     The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) delegations will meet top West German government officials today and tomorrow to lobby for support.     Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seem to have taken a hardline view on the issue.     \"Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to their advantage economically, but that is not correct because we would hit back,\" NSPA chairman Jack Reed said.     This step would be very expensive for all and no one would emerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said.     Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybean industry view the EC proposal as violating the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.     The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindings agreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said.     Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans and products can be exported to the Community duty-free.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. Agriculture Department proposals to offer 260,000 tonnes of subsidized vegetable oil to four countries are still under consideration by an interagency trade policy group, a USDA official close to the group said.     The official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed a report circulating in markets today that the interagency trade policy review group had rejected the proposals.     Under the proposals, USDA would offer vegetable oil under the export enhancement program, EEP, to four countries, including 80,000 tonnes to Turkey and 60,000 tonnes to Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, industry sources said.     The proposals \"are still under review\" by the interagency working group, the USDA official said.  \n',veg-oil
'The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has authorized an additional 10.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to cover sales of U.S. vegetable oils to North Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department also said at the request of the North Yemen Government five mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of wheat have been switched to cover sales of mixed poultry feed.     The actions increase the value of credit guarantees for vegetable oil for the current fiscal year to 38 mln dlrs, reduce the guarantee coverage for sales of wheat to eight mln dlrs and increase the coverage for sales of mixed poultry feed to 10 mln dlrs.     All exports must be completed by September 30, 1987.  \n',veg-oil
'A meeting among government agencies today reaffirmed the strong opposition of the United States to a proposed new tax on vegetable oils and fats in the European Community, U.S. trade officials said.     Representatives of the major government agencies agreed at a trade policy review group meeting, which includes officials of the deputy secretary rank, to continue diplomatic pressure on EC member states.     \"We (all agencies) are together on this,\" said one U.S. trade official.     One source said the U.S. would continue to make clear to member states and to the EC commission that if Brussels proceeds with the vegetable oils tax \"there will be a great cost.\"     U.S. officials said no formal list of European products on which the U.S. might retaliate, has yet been drawn up.     \"I don\'t think we\'re at that point yet,\" said one trade official, adding that the EC has only begun deliberations on its farm price package.     Suzanne Early, assistant trade representative, tolds the interagency meeting was to discuss U.S. strategy on the vegetable oils issue. Asked about retaliation, she said \"sometimes its better not to be specific.\"     U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter Monday warned another major transatlantic trade row will develop if the EC proceeds with the vegetable oils tax.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. scientists said some tropical vegetable oils can be hazardous to consumers whose health is at risk because of high levels of saturated fat, lending weight to a campaign by the American Soybean Association (ASA) for labelling changes.     The scientists appeared to support an ASA charge, denied by Malaysian palm growers, that imported coconut, palm and palm kernel oils contain high levels of saturated fat and thus raise blood cholesterol and the risk of heart disease.     In a petition filed in January, the ASA asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require palm, palm kernel and coconut oils to be identified as saturated fats on food manufacturers\' labels.     The FDA responded to the ASA in a letter saying it would consider the petition as a comment to a proposed rule dealing with cholesterol and fatty acid labelling of foods.     Malaysian oil palm growers have said the charges by the ASA that palm oil consumption increases blood cholesterol and contributes to heart disease are untrue.     But Steve Chang, Professor of Food Science at Rutgers University, said, \"Palm oil is definitely not good for human health because it has a high content of saturated fatty acid.\"     He added that the higher the fatty acid, the greater the blood cholesterol level. \"It has been well established that high cholesterol levels will have a higher level of heart disease,\" he said.     A Malaysian Oil Palm Growers Council official, Borge Bek-Nielsen, has said studies have shown that palm oil is cholesterol-free, low in saturated fats, has anti-cancer properties and prevents blood clotting and blocking of arteries in humans.     Bek-Nielsen said Americans consume more saturated fats daily through food like butter, bacon, ham and beef than from palm oil, which, he added is rich in vitamins A and E.     David Kritchevsky, Associate Director of the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, appeared to take the ASA view on labelling. \"What people really have to learn is to read labels,\" said Kritchevsky. \"The more a consumer knows, the more likely he will make an intelligent choice.\"     The U.S. scientists said they had no doubt imported palm, palm kernel and coconut oils contain high saturated fat levels.     Kritchevsky, a specialist in nutrition, said, \"More saturated fat would raise cholesterol levels...So, from that point of view it\'s a health risk. High cholesterol levels in the blood are a risk factor for heart disease.\"     Susanne Harris, deputy assistant secretary of the U.S. Agriculture Department\'s Food and Consumer Services Division, said the health risk among consumers of vegetable oils with high saturated fat levels was highest among those who have heart disease.     The scientists said more than 50 pct of the fatty acid content of the tropical oils was saturated, whereas less than 20 pct of the fatty acid content of soybean oil was saturated.     David Ericksen, director of ASA\'s technical services, said U.S. soybean producers could regain about one-half of the 273 mln dlrs in sales lost to imported tropical oils if consumers were aware the vegetable oils were high in saturated fat.     Imported tropical oils displace 171 mln bushels of U.S. soybean sales in the U.S. market, ASA estimates.     U.S. imports of coconut oil during January totaled 82.9 mln lbs compared with 48.0 mln lbs in December and 106.5 mln a year earlier, according to Commerce Department figures.     Imports of palm oil totaled 44.0 mln lbs compared with 51.3 mln lbs in December and 85.2 mln a year earlier.  \n',veg-oil
'The Senate voted to condemn the proposed European common market tax on vegetable and fish fats and oils and said it would result in retaliation.     The non binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senate sentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote.     \"The administration should communciate to the European Community the message that the United States will view the establishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the European Community\'s obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that will result in the adoption of strong and immediate countermeasures,\" the resolution stated.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. factories used 1,053.0 mln lbs of various vegetable oils in the production of edible products during February, the Census Bureau reported.     That compared with a revised usage of 1,075.0 mln lbs in January and 1,084.2 mln lbs in February, 1986.     February production of selected products included the following, with comparisons, in mln lbs --                  Feb 87    Jan 87    Feb 86      Baking or    Frying Fats -- 355.5    387.6-r   427.4  Soybean Salad and    Cooking Oil -- 388.1    373.3-r   351.7  R-Revised.      Production, continued (in mln lbs --)                    Feb 87    Jan 87   Feb 86  Other Salad and     Cooking Oils   111.2    111.4-r   114.3        Margarine   218.8    216.9-r   214.4        Glycerine --            Crude    21.5     25.9      31.3          Refined    23.5     23.6-r    25.4      Fatty Acids   102.9    112.5-r   113.1        Meat/Meal          Tankage   410.2    458.2-r   446.2  R-Revised.^M \n',veg-oil
'Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929 bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with 22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in the year-ago week, the association said.     It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year.     NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with 84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week.     NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said he was confident that a European Community, EC, proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils and fats would not be approved by the Community.     Asked bys if he was confident the plan eventually would be defeated, Amstutz said, \"Yes, I am, but I also know that things like this take constant vigilance.\"     The USDA official said the EC Council of Ministers held an ad hoc meeting yesterday.     Commenting on that meeting, he said, \"So far, so good.\"     Yesterday British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said enough EC states appeared to be opposed to the proposals by the commission for a 330 European Currency Unit a tonne tax on vegetable oils, fats and marine oils for the moves to be defeated.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter today said that if the European Community\'s Council of Ministers approves a tax on vegetable oils and fats, another major transatlantic trade row will erupt over agriculture.     In a statement issued by the trade representative\'s office following a speech to the American Soybean Association\'s board of directors, Yeutter said the proposed tax would have a severe impact on American soybean farmers, who export some 2.4 billion dlrs in soybeans and products annually to the EC.     \"This is an unacceptable situation for us and its (vegetable oils tax) enactment would leave us no choice but to vigorously protect our trade rights and defend our access to the European market,\" Yeutter said.     Yeutter said the proposed vegetable oils tax would violate EC obligations under the GATT.     He said the effect of the tax would be to double the price of soyoil produced from imported soybeans, making margarine made from soyoil more expensive than tallow-based margarine, and closer in price to expensive European butter.     \"I am astonished that the EC commission would propose such a provocative measure so soon after we successfully resolved the agricultural dispute over the enlargement of the EC to include Spain and Portugal,\" Yeutter said.     \"It serves no purpose to embark on another confrontational course before the recent wounds have healed and as we are beginning to make progress on the Uruaguay round (of global trade talks),\" he said.  \n',veg-oil
'U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the United States will retaliate if the European Community adopts a proposed tax on vegetable oils, but he did not say what EC products would be singled-out for reprisal.     Speaking to the National Grain and Feed Association (NGFA) convention here, Yeutter said he is \"cautiously optimistic\" the controversial oils tax proposal will be rejected by the EC Council of Ministers.     Yeutter said the proposed tax is a \"flagrant violation of the spirit of GATT\" because it would imperil the zero binding duty on U.S. exports of soybeans to Europe.     He said the Reagan administration has yet to decide on a retaliation list. The administration would not reveal a retaliation list unless the EC approved the proposal, he said.  \n',veg-oil