'Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage rose by 628,000 barrels in the week ended April three to 106.96 mln barrels from a revised 106.33 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute said.     In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks rose 2.29 mln barrels to 247.91 mln barrels from a revised 245.62 mln, and crude oil stocks were up 8.52 mln barrels to 337.73 mln from a revised 329.21 mln.     It said residual fuel stocks rose 28,000 barrels to 38.25 mln from a revised 37.98 mln barrels.     API said refinery runs in the week rose to 12.54 mln barrels per day from 12.21 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 80.4 pct, up from 78.3 pct.     Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.40 mln bpd from a revised 3.60 mln, API added.  \n',gas
'U.S. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole (R-Kan.) said he and a group of Republican lawmakers are considering introducing legislation to extend the ethanol tax exemption through the year 2000.     Dole, addressing the National Corn Growers Association board, said the proposal was under consideration by a rural task force of Republican members of Congress and governors.     Gasoline containing at least 10 pct ethanol now receives a six cents per gallon exemption from a nine cent federal excise tax. The exemption is to expire the end of 1992.     Ethanol is produced primarily by a few large agribusiness firms including Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) and A.E. Staley. The tax exemption has helped bolster ethanol production despite a sharp drop in the prices of competing crude oil.  \n',gas
'The European Community (EC) agreed tough new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region\'s forests.     Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes.     The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990.     The EC\'s executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles applied to the new standards.     There are an estimated nine mln lorries and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures.     The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said.     West Germany will still need ministers\' final approval for such a plan. Diplomats said this was expected when EC environment ministers meet next on May 21.     But the ministers added that the go-ahead for West Germany did not mean there would automatically follow a Community-wide ban on the sale of regular leaded petrol.     Bonn intends to keep leaded premium petrol pumps, diplomats said. They added that, of the 97 mln cars in the EC, only 20 mln now ran on regular leaded petrol and these would risk no damage if they switched over to premium leaded petrol.     Under EC law, ministers have to give member states special permission if they wish to be exempt from Community competition laws. This would be the case if West Germany were to implement a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol.  \n',gas
'The European Community (EC) agreed on new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region\'s forests.     Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes.     The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990.     The EC\'s executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles met the new standards.     There are an estimated nine mln trucks and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures.     The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said.  \n',gas
'The EC Executive Commission has backed a plan to allow member countries to ban regular leaded gasoline in a move designed to encourage use of unleaded fuel.     It said in a statement it backed a proposal to allow EC states to ban sales of regular grade gasoline containing lead at six months notice. The proposal, which needs approval by EC ministers, would not force any member state to impose the ban. \"It\'s an option, not an obligation,\" a spokesman said.     But the Commission said imposing the ban would encourage the use of unleaded fuel, as well as making it easier for gas stations by cutting the number of types of gasoline they had to stock.  \n',gas
'The Federal Trade Commission said its staff has urged the governor of Georgia to veto a bill that would prohibit petroleum refiners from owning and operating retail gasoline stations.     The proposed legislation is aimed at preventing large oil refiners and marketers from using predatory or monopolistic practices against franchised dealers.     But the FTC said fears of refiner-owned stations as part of a scheme of predatory or monopolistic practices are unfounded. It called the bill anticompetitive and warned that it would force higher gasoline prices for Georgia motorists.  \n',gas
'A new grade of unleaded gasoline now being test marketed will increase refining costs when refiners can least afford it, according to officials attending the National Petroleum Refiners Association conference here.     The new grade of unleaded gasoline has an octane level of 89 compared with over 90 for super unleaded and 87 for regular unleaded gasoline.      Amoco Corp AN has test-marketed the new mid-grade gasoline and hopes to sell it on a regular basis in the South, East and Midwest by the beginning of June, according to Paul Collier, executive vice president of marketing.     Phillips Petroleum P expects to begin marketing the new 89 octane unleaded gasoline in May, sources said.     Converting current refinery operations to produce the 89 octane unleaded gsoline could cost hundreds of millions of dollars per refinery but that depends on the present capacity and intensity of the refinery, said Amoco\'s Collier.     But not all oil company\'s welcome the introduction of another grade of unleaded gasoline.     \"Three grades are not warranted,\" said Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum CNP. \"Refiners will have to upgrade again,\" he added.     \"An investment will have to be made,\" said Archie Dunham, executive vice president of petroleum products at Conoco, an operating subsidiary of DuPont Corp DD in order to upgrade refinery operations.  \n',gas
'U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 1.9 pct in the four weeks ended March six to 16.39 mln barrels per day from 16.08 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.     In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was down 2.2 pct in the period to 3.33 mln bpd from 3.40 mln a year earlier.     Gasoline demand averaged 6.75 mln bpd, up 3.3 pct from 6.53 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.40 mln bpd, off 2.7 pct from 1.43 mln, the EIA said.     Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, down 8.5 pct from 9.15 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.67 mln bpd, up 23 pct from 2.97 mln, the EIA said.     Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.05 mln bpd, up 1.5 pct from 11.87 mln a year earlier, it said.     Year-to-date figures will not become available until March 26 when EIA\'s Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987 becomes available, the agency said.  \n',gas
'Spain\'s state refiner Empresa Nacional de Petroleo S.A. (EMP) plans to build its second unit for production of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), a gasoline additive replacing lead, company sources said.     The Coruna-based plant, with an annual capacity of 27,000 tonnes, and a 55,000-tonnes-per-year facility that EMP will start up in Tarragona next year, will make the state refiner Spain\'s biggest producer of MTBE.     Petroleos del Norte S.A. (Petronor) runs a 45,000 tonne a year plant in Bilbao and Cia Espanola de Petroleos S.A. (Cepsa) plans to put a similar unit onstream next year in Algeciras.  \n',gas
'Energy Secretary John Herrington said he would rule out a tax on gasoline as one option to help avert what his departmet has called the threat of increased reliance on foreign oil in the coming years.     He said at a news conference that any recommendation he would make would have to increase domestic production, not cause widespread economic hardship and have a minimal cost to the U.S. taxpayer.     On the grounds of increasing production, he said, \"I would rule out a gasoline tax.\"     Herrington also repeated he would rule out an oil import fee because of the widespread dislocation it would cause -- the loss of about 400,000 jobs nationwide due to higher oil prices and a drop in the gross national product by about 32 billion dlrs.     He said an increased depletion allowance, to 27.5 pct, on new and enhanced production of oil and natural gas would be a cheap way to spur domestic production.     He estimated this cost at about 200 mln dlrs a year.     Herrington proposed the increased depletion allowance to the White House Tuesday but the White House reaction was cool.     The White House said it would study the proposal, but was generally oppposed to altering the national tax code, just passed last year.     Herrington, asked his reaction to the White House reaction, said, \"If I were the White House, I would be cool, too.\"  \n',gas
'House Speaker Jim Wright said a gasoline tax is one option to finding a way to reduce the deficit, but told reporters in response to a question he will not try to dictate a solution to the debt problem.     Wright has made suggestions for raising taxes about 20 billion dlrs as part of a budget plan to reduce the deficit. Tax proposals are being given consideration by members of the House Budget Committee, but the details of any tax increase would be made by the tax writing House ways and Means Committee.  \n',gas