'A senior Ivory Coast Agriculture Ministry official confirmed his country\'s backing for a new international cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would be present at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.     The official tolds that Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convened by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London on Monday.     While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the country\'s capital Yamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates will be present throughout the London talks, the official said.     Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours that he or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of public mourning in the West African nation helped depress already low world cocoa prices Friday.     The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the new pact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of the world\'s cocoa exporters and consumers.     He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCO Council chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March 27.     The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of the pact\'s buffer stock which producers hope will boost a market hit by successive world cocoa surpluses.     Ivory Coast did not participate in the last international cocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparked hopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices.  \n',cocoa
'Showers continued throughout the week in the Bahia cocoa zone, alleviating the drought since early January and improving prospects for the coming temporao, although normal humidity levels have not been restored, Comissaria Smith said in its weekly review.     The dry period means the temporao will be late this year.     Arrivals for the week ended February 22 were 155,221 bags of 60 kilos making a cumulative total for the season of 5.93 mln against 5.81 at the same stage last year. Again it seems that cocoa delivered earlier on consignment was included in the arrivals figures.     Comissaria Smith said there is still some doubt as to how much old crop cocoa is still available as harvesting has practically come to an end. With total Bahia crop estimates around 6.4 mln bags and sales standing at almost 6.2 mln there are a few hundred thousand bags still in the hands of farmers, middlemen, exporters and processors.     There are doubts as to how much of this cocoa would be fit for export as shippers are now experiencing dificulties in obtaining +Bahia superior+ certificates.     In view of the lower quality over recent weeks farmers have sold a good part of their cocoa held on consignment.     Comissaria Smith said spot bean prices rose to 340 to 350 cruzados per arroba of 15 kilos.     Bean shippers were reluctant to offer nearby shipment and only limited sales were booked for March shipment at 1,750 to 1,780 dlrs per tonne to ports to be named.     New crop sales were also light and all to open ports with June/July going at 1,850 and 1,880 dlrs and at 35 and 45 dlrs under New York july, Aug/Sept at 1,870, 1,875 and 1,880 dlrs per tonne FOB.     Routine sales of butter were made. March/April sold at 4,340, 4,345 and 4,350 dlrs.     April/May butter went at 2.27 times New York May, June/July at 4,400 and 4,415 dlrs, Aug/Sept at 4,351 to 4,450 dlrs and at 2.27 and 2.28 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 4,480 dlrs and 2.27 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said.     Destinations were the U.S., Covertible currency areas, Uruguay and open ports.     Cake sales were registered at 785 to 995 dlrs for March/April, 785 dlrs for May, 753 dlrs for Aug and 0.39 times New York Dec for Oct/Dec.     Buyers were the U.S., Argentina, Uruguay and convertible currency areas.     Liquor sales were limited with March/April selling at 2,325 and 2,380 dlrs, June/July at 2,375 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York July, Aug/Sept at 2,400 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 1.25 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said.     Total Bahia sales are currently estimated at 6.13 mln bags against the 1986/87 crop and 1.06 mln bags against the 1987/88 crop.     Final figures for the period to February 28 are expected to be published by the Brazilian Cocoa Trade Commission after carnival which ends midday on February 27.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council agreed standard price differentials for different origin cocoas to form part of the buffer stock buying and selling procedure, consumer delegates said.     The buffer stock manager will accept offers for different origin cocoas according to a sliding scale of price differentials, under which Ghana cocoa will be pegged at a 137 stg premium to Malaysian.     Thus, if the buffer stock manager was buying cocoa based on a Malaysian price of 1,200 stg a tonne, he would accept Ghana offers up to 1,337 stg.     Differentials were fixed as follows,  Country       Differential stg/tonne  Malaysia           0  Brazil            55  Ivory Coast       67  Cameroun          77  Nigeria          120  Togo             130  Ghana            137     Nigeria\'s differential is on \"landed weight\" terms. Shipping weight terms will be accepted at a 15 stg discount to this rate.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) moved closer to an agreement on buffer stock rules, with many delegates saying they expect to reach an accord by Friday.     \"Everyone is convinced the buffer stock rules should be in place by Friday so the buffer stock can be put into operation Monday,\" a consumer delegate said. \"The atmosphere is excellent.\"     Other delegates said the buffer stock might not be operational by Monday but could be in place by around April 1, if the rules are agreed by Friday.     A detailed package on how the buffer stock manager will buy and sell cocoa was presented to a buffer stock working group this afternoon -- a big step toward a \"very interesting stage of negotiations,\" delegates said.     The package, based on negotiating principles informally agreed by delegates, has been forged bit by bit during fortnight-long meetings by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn and a small group of other delegates.     Producers, the European Community (EC) and consumers are scheduled to consider the paper separately and then jointly tomorrow.     Under the proposal, the buffer stock manager would buy cocoa from origins or the second-hand market on an offer system. He would alert the market via news agencies as to when he wanted to buy cocoa and include shipment details and tonnage desired, delegates said.     The manager would buy cocoa on a competitive basis, rather than choosing the cheapest cocoa as before, giving preference to ICCO member-country exporters. Standard price differentials would be fixed for each origin, similar to golf handicaps, to determine the relative competitiveness of offers of various cocoas from different origins, they said.     The differentials could be reviewed at the request of a member country or recommendation of the buffer stock manager, the delegates said. Revision would be decided by a majority vote of the ICCO council.     Buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries would not be allowed to exceed 10 pct of the total buffer stock, they said.     The purchases would be limited to 5,000 tonnes of cocoa per day and 20,000 tonnes per week, and could be bought in nearby, intermediate and forward positions, they added.     One of the underlying ideas of the rules package is \"transparency,\" meaning virtually all the buffer stock manager\'s market activities will be public and he will have as little discretion as possible, delegates said.     After the tin market collapse in 1985, when the International Tin Council buffer stock ran out of funds, cocoa delegates are anxious to install safeguards in the cocoa market mechanism, they said.      Earnest debate on the buffer stock proposal is expected to begin late tomorrow, as delegations feel the pressure of the approaching Friday deadline, when the ICCO meeting is due to adjourn, delegates said.     The ICCO failed to agree buffer stock rules in January when the new International Cocoa Agreement came into force. The existing buffer stock of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen in place with its bank balance of 250 mln dlrs -- both untouchable until rules are agreed.      Though the current semi-annual council meeting is not the last chance for delegates to cement buffer stock rules, producers are keen to get the wheels of the market-stabilizing mechanism turning to stem the decline in world prices, delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'A final compromise proposal on cocoa buffer stock rules presented by International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon is swiftly gaining acceptance by consumer and producer members, delegates said.     \"We are close, nearer than ever to accepting it, but we still have some work to do,\" producer spokesman Mama Mohammed of Ghana tolds after a producers\' meeting.     European Community, EC, delegates said EC consumers accepted the package in a morning meeting and predicted \"no problems\" in getting full consumer acceptance.     Delegates on both sides are keen to come to some agreement today, the last day of the fortnight-long council meeting, they said.     The compromise requires that buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries cannot exceed 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases, delegates said. The non-member cocoa issue has been among the most contentious in the rules negotiations.     The 15 pct figure, up five percentage points from earlier proposals, represents a concession to consumers, delegates said. They have demanded a larger allowance for non-member cocoa in the buffer stock than producers have wanted.     Another problem area, delegates said, was the question of price differentials for different origins of cocoa bought into the buffer stock, by which the buffer stock manager could fairly compare relative prices of different cocoas offered to him.     The compromise narrowed the range of differentials between the origins from what previous proposals had detailed -- a move some delegates described as \"just fiddling.\"     But the adjustments may prove significant enough to appease some countries that were not satisfied with the original proposed differentials assigned to them, delegates said.     The compromise also stated buffer stock purchases on any day would be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate or forward positions, delegates said.     If the compromise is accepted by the council, most consumers and producers want buffer stock rules to take effect next week, or as soon as practically possible.     The full council is scheduled to meet around 1500 GMT to discuss the compromise, and could agree on it then if all parties are satisfied, they said. Consumers are due to meet before the council.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock could face an uphill battle to halt the downtrend in world cocoa prices when it begins buying operations in the next few weeks, cocoa traders said.     Traders said they believed buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes in a matter of weeks without lifting prices significantly, given the amount of surplus cocoa overhanging the market. The buffer stock may begin buying shortly as the ICCO 10 day average indicator price is now at 1,578.03 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) per tonne, below the 1,600 \"must buy\" level.     Rules governing buffer stock operations were agreed last month by the ICCO council. Buying will begin once the buffer stock manager has completed preparations, traders said.     Some traders said the buffer stock manager may delay buffer stock buying until mid or end-April when changes in months used to calculate the ICCO indicator may lift the 10 day average above the 1,600 SDR \"must buy\" level.     The ICCO indicator price is calculated from the average of the second, third and fourth positions on the London and New York futures markets. The daily price was 1,577.61 SDR per tonne yesterday.     Months used currently for the indicator are May, July and September, but these are set to change to July, September and December on April 15, prior to May becoming the New York spot month, traders noted.     The introduction of December into the calculations may lift the daily SDR price as December is currently quoted about 75 stg above May on the London terminal market.     But the buffer stock manager would have to wait for the higher daily price to feed through into the 10-day average, the indicator which governs his activities, traders said.     \"The buffer stock manager is obviously looking at the implications of delaying until forward prices lift the indicator since it might mean he has to buy less cocoa,\" an analyst from a leading cocoa trade house said.     Traders said the buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes fairly quickly once buying starts. If purchases reach this level within six months, buying is suspended pending an ICCO council review of price ranges. But some cocoa market watchers said the buffer stock may benefit from recent forecasts for a poor Brazilian Bahia temporao crop at 1.5 mln to two mln 60 kilo bags against initial expectations of up to three mln.     A lower than expected Brazilian crop may cut the 1986/87 world surplus to between 50,000 and 70,000 tonnes, compared with a recent forecast by the ICCO statistics committee of 94,000 tonnes, traders said.     In these circumstances, the buffer stock may only need to buy between 20,000 and 30,000 tonnes to lift prices above the \"must buy\" level.     But some dealers said the ICCO buffer stock rules may put constraints on how quickly and effectively the buffer stock manager can remove cocoa from the market.     The buffer stock system of price differentials set according to quality and a 15 pct limit on purchases from non-members could limit the buffer stock\'s scope for action, dealers said.     Most of the cocoa readily available to the buffer stock is nearby in-store material of Malaysian and Ivory Coast origin.     But the buffer stock can only buy 15 pct Malaysian cocoa as Malaysia is not an ICCO member, while purchases of nearby cocoa can only reach 40 pct in any one day, which forces the buffer stock to buy some intermediate and forward shipment material.     Limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby and non-member cocoa will reduce the impact on terminal prices which are pressured by the overhang of Malaysian material, traders said.     Buffer stock purchases of forward shipment cocoa from quality producers such as Ghana will have only a limited impact on futures, but is likely to widen physical market premiums for this cocoa over futures.     Ghana\'s premium to the terminal has risen to about 50 stg from 25 to 30 stg a month ago partly in anticipation of buffer stock buying, dealers said.     \"The buffer stock may not help the terminal market, but will provide a backstop for quality cocoas,\" one trader said.     Traders cautioned that views on the impact of the buffer stock were \"all prognostication\" and that no one could hope to predict accurately what the result would be. Psychologically buffer stock buying should help prices, but since the buffer stock already holds a carryover of 100,000 tonnes from the previous cocoa agreement and the market is in surplus, dealers expressed doubts purchases can counter bearish pressure.     In June the ICCO is due to discuss rules for a withholding scheme as an additional market support mechanism.  \n',cocoa
'The cocoa buffer stock rules just decided by the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council will take effect immediately, delegates said.     That means the buffer stock manager is likely to begin buying cocoa within two or three weeks, after organizing communication systems and assessing the market, they said.  \n',cocoa
'International Cocoa Organization\'s, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon continued work towards a compromise plan on how the ICCO buffer stock should buy cocoa, consumer delegates said.     Consumer delegates said Bra Kanon had not formally presented the compromise plan to producers and consumers, and it was unlikely he would do so before Friday, they said.     There was widespread confidence a result on the outstanding items could be reached by Friday, when the council session is due to end, consumers said.     Bra Kanon completed bilateral consultations with several delegations today on the main sticking points in the draft buffer stock rules package, they said.     Certain delegations wanted further discussion on the amount of non-member cocoa the buffer stock will be permitted to buy, differentials for different origin cocoas and limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby, and forward material, the delegates said.     The buffer stock working group finalized the remaining buffer stock rules, with only minor modifications to the original draft buffer stock package produced last week, the delegates said.     The ICCO council is due to elect a new executive director when it reconvenes Friday, producer delegates said.     Producers intend to present a single candidate for the post, and this is most likely to be Edouard Kouame from Ivory Coast, they said.     Earlier, the existing executive director, Kobena Erbynn from Ghana, was expected to re-nominated, but he is now likely to withdraw, the delegates said.     The executive committee is due to meet Friday at 1100 GMT, with the council unlikely to reconvene until late Friday, consumers said.  \n',cocoa
'Consumer members of the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, accepted a final buffer stock rules compromise, \"on the condition that producers also agree,\" consumer spokesman Peter Baron said.     The full council was meeting at 1530 GMT to discuss the compromise, which was put together yesterday by ICCO chairman Denis Bra Kanon.     Consumer delegates said they were optimistic the council could reach agreement on the rules fairly quickly.  \n',cocoa
'Representatives of cocoa consuming countries at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting here have edged closer to a unified stance on buffer stock rules, delegates said.     While consumers do not yet have a common position, an observer said after a consumer meeting, \"They are much more fluid ... and the tone is positive.\"     European Community consumers were split on the question of how the cocoa buffer stock should be operated when the ICCO met in January to put the new International Cocoa Agreement into effect, delegates said.     At the January meeting, France sided with producers on how the buffer stock should operate, delegates said. That meeting ended without agreement on new buffer stock rules.     The EC Commission met in Brussels on Friday to see whether the 12 EC cocoa consuming nations could narrow their differences at this month\'s meeting.     The Commissioners came away from the Friday meeting with an informal agreement to respond to signs of flexibility among producers on the key buffer stock issues, delegates said.     The key issues to be addressed at this council session which divide ICCO members are whether non-member cocoa should be eligible for buffer stock purchases and what price differentials the buffer stock should pay for different types of cocoa, delegates said.     A consumer delegate said producers and consumers should be able to compromise on the non-member cocoa question.     A working group comprising delegates from all producing and consuming member countries met briefly this morning, then broke up into a producer meeting and an EC meeting, followed by a consumer meeting.     Producers, who are in favour of the buffer stock buying a variety of grades of cocoa and oppose non-member cocoa being accepted, reviewed their position ahead of the working group meeting this afternoon.     \"We are waiting to see what consumers say,\" a producer delegate said. \"We hope they will be flexible or it will be difficult to negotiate.\"     The ICCO comprises 33 member countries. Non- members include the U.S., a consumer, and Malaysia, an increasingly important producer.  \n',cocoa
'International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, Council chairman, Denis Bra Kanon, said he will attempt to reach a compromise on buffer stock rules for the International Cocoa Agreement.     Bra Kanon called for bilateral consultations among producers and consumers Thursday morning to resolve outstanding differences on how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and differentials to be fixed for different origin cocoa, consumer delegates told reporters.     Bra Kanon is expected to meet with about eight delegations individually in attempt to iron out remaining problems.     Producers and consumers indicated support \"in principle\" for the draft buffer stock rules package formulated over the past week by a small working group, consumer delegates said.     Despite remaining differences delegates remained confident a buffer stock accord would be agreed to by Friday when the council session ends, but certain technical points need further clarification, the delegates said.     Certain consumers are concerned that differentials included in the draft buffer stock package are out of line with market realities, consumer delegates said.     Unless these are modified there are fears it would promote purchases of quality cocoas, such as Ghana origin, which are normally required by manufacturers, they said.     Restrictions on buffer stock purchases of non-member cocoa might lead to a supply overhang in Malaysian cocoa, which would depress prices, they added.  \n',cocoa
'International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon will present a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules to producer and consumer delegates either later today or tomorrow morning, delegates said.     Bra Kanon held private bilateral consultations with major producers and consumers this morning to resolve outstanding differences, mostly on the issues of how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and price differentials for different varieties.     Delegates were fairly confident the differences could be worked out in time to reach agreement tomorrow.     Some consuming member nations, including Britain and Belgium, favour the buffer stock buying more than 10 pct non-member cocoa, delegates have said.     The consumers argue that buying cheaper, lower quality non-member cocoas, particularly Malaysian, will most effectively support prices because that low quality cocoa is currently pressuring the market.     Producers, meanwhile, say non-member cocoa should make up at most a very small percentage of the buffer. They say Malaysia should not be able to benefit from the ICCO unless it is a member, and if the buffer stock bought Malaysian cocoa Malaysia would have no incentive to join, delegates said.     As to differentials, Ghana apparently wanted a higher differential for its cocoa than is outlined in the most recent proposal, so it would have a better chance of having its cocoa bought for the buffer stock, producer delegates said.     Some consumers wanted differentials to be adjusted in a way that would not promote buffer stock purchases of the more expensive cocoas, such as Ghanaian and Brazilian, they said.     Other technical points need to be sorted out, including limits on how much cocoa the buffer stock manager can buy in nearby, intermediate and forward positions and the consequent effect on prices in the various deliveries, delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council adjourned after agreeing buffer stock rules for the 1986 International Cocoa Agreement, an ICCO spokesman said.     The buffer stock will begin operations immediately, he said.     He confirmed delegate reports that the buffer stock manager will trade cocoa by means of an offer system, and according to fixed differentials for cocoa from different origins.     Purchases from non-members will be limited to 15 pct of the total and buying or selling operations in any one day will be restricted to a maximum of 40 pct each for nearby, intermediate and forward positions, he said.  \n',cocoa
'The buffer stock rules agreement reached on Friday by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) is an improvement on previous arrangements but the price-support mechanism is unlikely to do more than stem the decline in cocoa prices, many ICCO delegates and trade sources said.     The accord was reached between producers and consumers of the 35-member ICCO council after two weeks of talks.     European chocolate manufacturers and delegates said the accord may boost cocoa prices immediately, but world surpluses overhanging the market will pull prices down again before long.     \"If the buffer stock operation is successful, I doubt it will do anything more than stop the price from falling further, and it will have no relevance at all to retail chocolate prices,\" a European dealer said.     And if the buffer stock manager delays too long in buying, or is not seen to be using his purchasing power when the market is relying on him to do so, the bearish trade reaction could pressure prices dramatically, dealers said.     The buffer stock is the market-regulating tool of the ICCO, into which cocoa can be bought or from which it can be sold to manoeuvre prices into a pre-set stabilization range.     A new cocoa agreement came into force in January but delegates could not agree buffer stock rules at that time.     The new rules take effect immediately. The buffer stock manager is expected to begin buying cocoa within the next three weeks, after organizing communications with cocoa producing countries and assessing the market, since prices are below the \"must-buy\" level of 1,600 Special Drawing Rights per tonne specified in the agreement, the sources said.     The buffer stock theoretically has funds to buy a maximum 100,000 tonnes within a five week period, but its approach will be more cautious, buffer stock manager Juergen Plambeck said.     The buffer stock has around 250 mln dlrs in funds and a buying limit of 250,000 tonnes of cocoa, 100,000 tonnes of which are already in the buffer stock.     ICCO council chairman and Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon said the new rules have a good chance of stabilizing prices. Ivory Coast is the world\'s largest cocoa producer.     \"We have established rules which will permit us to withdraw immediately the surplus of cocoa on the world market,\" Bra Kanon told reporters after the council adjourned. Bra Kanon reckoned the world cocoa surplus could be less than half the 94,000 tonnes estimated by the ICCO statistics committee.     However, some producer and consumer members emerged from the final ICCO council meeting with reservations about the pact.     Ghana, whose high-quality cocoa is the world\'s most expensive and provides 60 pct of the country\'s export earnings, made a formal protest to the council about the price differentials assigned to its cocoa, saying they were too high for Ghanaian cocoa to be bought for the buffer stock.     According to consumer spokesman Peter Baron of West Germany, \"Consumers weren\'t perfectly happy with the buffer stock rules. We reached a very sensitive compromise...There were no real winners or losers.\"     Some European Community delegates were not satisfied that important points were fully discussed during the talks, and as a result, doubted the rules can deal with world surpluses as effectively as they could have, delegates said.     Under the new rules, the buffer stock manager would seek offers of different origin cocoas, using price differentials to reflect different qualities. Non-ICCO member cocoa can comprise up to 15 pct of the total buffer stock.     London cocoa prices traded today around 1,300 stg per tonne, down from around 1,450 stg in January 1987 and 1,750 stg in January 1986.     A cocoa withholding scheme can take a further 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if a special council session decides market conditions warrant it, according to the agreement.     The withholding scheme can only be used if prices fall below the 1,600 SDR lower intervention price for more than five days and if 80 pct of the maximum buffer stock capacity has been filled, or if the buffer stock runs low on funds, it says.     The ICCO will discuss withholding scheme rules at an executive committee meeting on June 9/12, ICCO officials said.  \n',cocoa
'Hopes mounted for an agreement on cocoa buffer stock rules at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting which opened here today, delegates said.     Both producer and consumer ICCO members said after the opening session that prospects for an agreement on the cocoa market support mechanism were improving.     \"The chances are very good as of now of getting buffer stock rules by the end of next week,\" Ghanaian delegate and producer spokesman Mama Mohammed told journalists.     Consumer spokesman Peter Baron called the tone of the negotiations \"optimistic and realistic.\"     The ICCO council failed to agree on buffer stock rules when a new International Cocoa Agreement came into force in January, with deep differences of opinion precluding serious discussions on the matter at that time. The existing buffer stock of about 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen, with a funds balance of 250 mln dlrs.     The ICCO made buffer stock rules negotiations a priority at this semi-annual council meeting in order to stop the slide in world cocoa prices.     Consumers and producers agreed yesterday on the principles as a basis for negotiations.     The council broke for lunch, and reconvenes at 1500 hrs. A working group which has been meeting since Monday will tackle the buffer stock rules issue again at 1600 hrs, when ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn presents a fleshed-out version of a draft proposal he prepared earlier this week, delegates said.     Mohammed said delegates will have a much clearer indication of prospects for an accord after details of the rules are elaborated by Erbynn, and after producers and consumers meet separately later today to examine the scheme.     The draft proposal included three principles: a limit to non- member cocoa comprising the buffer stock, an offer system for buying buffer stock cocoa, and price differentials to be paid for various cocoas making up the buffer stock, delegates said.     During the morning council session, the Ivory Coast delegation gave \"an open minded statement\" that it is willing to work out a buffer stock rules solution which could come into effect as soon as possible, Baron said.     Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the ICCO council, was now expected to arrive in London Monday to attend the talks, Baron said. Vice chairman Sir Denis Henry of Grenada chaired the meeting in his place.     Soviet and East German delegates did not attend the council session because of a conflicting International Sugar Organization meeting today, but could arrive this afternoon, delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'The credibility of government efforts to stabilise fluctuating commodity prices will again be put to the test over the next two weeks as countries try to agree on how a buffer stock should operate in the cocoa market, government delegates and trade experts said.     Only two weeks ago, world coffee prices slumped when International Coffee Organization members failed to agree on how coffee export quotas should be calculated. This week, many of the same experts gather in the same building here to try to agree on how the cocoa pact reached last summer should work.     The still unresolved legal wrangle surrounding the International Tin Council (ITC), which had buffer stock losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling, is also casting a shadow over commodity negotiations.     The ITC\'s failure has restricted negotiators\' ability to compromise as governments do not want to be involved in pacts with built-in flaws or unlimited liability, but want clear lines drawn between aid and trade.     A more hopeful sign of cooperation was agreement on basic elements of a new International Natural Rubber Agreement in Geneva at the weekend.     Some importing countries insist the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock rules must not be muddied with quota type subclauses which might dictate the type of cocoa to be bought. One consumer country delegate said this would \"distort, not support\" the market.     Trade and industry sources blame uncertainty about the ICCO for destabilising the market as the recent collapse in coffee prices has made traders acutely aware that commodity pacts can founder. On Friday this uncertainty helped push London cocoa futures down to eight month lows. The strength of sterling has also contributed to the recent slip in prices.     The ICCO daily and average prices on Friday fell below the \"must buy\" level of 1,600 SDRs a tonne designated in the pact, which came into force at the last ICCO session in January but without rules for the operation of the buffer stock.     Consumers and producers could not agree on how it should operate and what discretion it should be given. The agreement limits it to trading physical cocoa and expressly says it cannot operate on futures markets.     A cash balance of some 250 mln dlrs and a stock of almost 100,000 tonnes of cocoa, enough to mount large buying or selling operations, were carried forward from the previous agreement.     Members finance the stock through a 45 dlrs a tonne levy on all cocoa they trade. It has an upper limit of 250,000 tonnes.     The key arguments being faced by the ICCO working group on buffer stock rules which is meeting today and tomorrow will be over non-member cocoa and differentials the buffer stock should pay when trading different types of cocoa. Another working group is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss administrative matters, and the full council meets on Thursday.     Producers have so far maintained that buffer stock funds should not help mop up surplus cocoa produced in non-member countries such as Malaysia.     Consumers say when this cocoa is the cheapest the buffer stock should buy it rather than compete with chocolate manufacturers for premium-priced high quality cocoas.     The argument over buying non-member cocoa is closely linked to the one over differentials for different qualities.     European industry and trade advisers have suggested as a compromise that the buffer stock have a maximum share that can represent non-member cocoa and that it use the London futures market\'s existing differentials for different qualities.     Currently, good West African cocoa is tendered at par onto the London market.     Discounts, which are currently under review, range up to 50 stg a tonne for Brazilian and Malaysian cocoa.     Consumer delegates said the same arguments in reverse would operate when prices are high - the buffer stock should sell the highest priced cocoa in most demand, forcing all prices lower.     The January talks were slowed by a split inside the European Community, a key ICCO consumer group, with France siding with producers. EC representatives met in closed session in Brussels on Friday in an attempt to reach a common ground and, a diplomatic source said, narrowed the range of positions among the 12 nations.     The source said the EC will be looking for signs of flexibility on the part of producers in the next few days and will be able to respond if they are there.     One ICCO delegate describing the producer/consumer split said consumer proposals mean buying more cocoa for less and backs the concept of the pact which is \"meant to support the market where trade buying is not.\"     In contrast, he said, producers seem to want to sell their cocoa to the buffer stock rather than consumers.     Other, more technical, issues still outstanding include whether the buffer stock should buy at a single announced \"posted price\" as in the previous pact or by announcing it is buying then accepting offers.     In either case, delegates said, it is accepted that producers must be given a clear opportunity to make offers of cocoa for forward shipment directly to the buffer stock in a way that is competitive with spot offers made by dealers.  \n',cocoa
'International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) talks on buffer stock rules have slowed during a crucial phase of negotiations, delegates said, but they remained confident about prospects for reaching agreement by Friday.     Cocoa producers, European Community (EC) consumers and all consumers separately reviewed technical details of a buffer stock rules package distributed yesterday.     The buffer stock working group of consumers and producers was set to meet later today to debate the proposal jointly for the first time, they said.     Delegates said major sticking points were likely to be the amount of non-member cocoa allowed to be bought for the buffer stock, and the fixed price differentials at which different origin cocoas will be offered to the buffer stock manager.     Producers would prefer that non-member cocoa not be included in the buffer stock because, if it is, countries such as Malaysia benefit from the cocoa agreement without joining it, the delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock working group meeting set for 1130 GMT today was rescheduled for 1430, ICCO delegates said.     The meeting was delayed so a draft compromise proposal on buffer stock rules could be completed, they said.     ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn was preparing the plan in consultation with other delegates for presentation to the full working group, they added.  \n',cocoa
'A 250 dlr spot charge will be added to the New York cocoa futures, July delivery, contract starting Wednesday, March 18, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said.     The March delivery ceases trading March 17, making May and July the two nearby unlimited positions. Previously, March and May were unlimited.     The margin requirement for a May or July position will be 1,000 dlrs--750 dlrs original margin plus 250 dlrs spot fee.  \n',cocoa
'Total Dutch imports of cocoa beans rose to 17,978 tonnes in January from 13,961 in January 1986, while exports fell to 1,852 tonnes from 3,111, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.     Cocoa butter imports rose slightly to 1,699 tonnes from 1,507, while exports fell slightly to 6,211 from 6,293 tonnes.     Imports of cocoa powder fell to 316 tonnes from 469 and exports to 5,944 from 6,106 tonnes.  \n',cocoa
'The new International Cocoa Agreement should lead to a stabilisation of prices, both benefitting producer countries and promoting an equilibrium in international economic relations, European Community Development Commissioner Lorenzo Natali said.     He said in a statement welcoming the agreement on buffer stock rules reached last week in London that it resulted in large part from initiatives taken by the EC Commission after consumers and producers had reached deadlock in initial negotiations.  \n',cocoa
'The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 1,323 tonnes of cocoa in the 21st week, ended February 26, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 1,961 tonnes the previous week and 1,344 tonnes in the 21st week ended March six of the 1985/86 season, the board said.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 216,095 tonnes, still up on the 201,966 tonnes purchased by the 21st week of last season, the Board said.  \n',cocoa
'The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 214 tonnes of cocoa in the 24th week, ended March 19, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 456 tonnes the previous week and 372 tonnes in the 24th week ended March 27 of the 1985/86 season.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,449 tonnes, ahead of the 204,256 tonnes purchased by the 24th week of last season.  \n',cocoa
'The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 456 tonnes of cocoa in the 23rd week, ended March 12, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 684 tonnes the previous week and 784 tonnes in the 23rd week ended March 20 of the 1985/86 season.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,235 tonnes, ahead of the 203,884 tonnes purchased by the 23rd week of last season, the board said.  \n',cocoa
'Haiti and Czechoslovakia have joined the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), bringing membership in the United Nations charter body to 18 importing countries and 17 exporters, ICCO officials said.     Haiti has provisionally applied to the ICCO as an exporting member, and accounts for 0.92 pct of world cocoa exports, they said. Czechoslovakia joined as an importer.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) Council reached agreement on rules to govern its buffer stock, the device it uses to keep cocoa off the market to stabilise prices, ICCO delegates said.     The date on which the new rules will take effect has not been decided but delegates said they expected them to come into force early next week, after which the buffer stock manager can begin buying or selling cocoa.     Since prices are below the \"may-buy\" level of 1,655 Special Drawing Rights a tonne set in the cocoa pact, the manager is likely to buy cocoa sooon to support the market, they said.     Delegates and traders said they expected the manager, Juergen Plambeck, to intervene in the market within three weeks of the pact coming into force.     The rules permit him to buy and sell cocoa from origins or the second hand market on an offer system, not by means of a posted price as in the previous cocoa accord.     The cocoa will be priced according to a fixed set of differentials, ranging from 137 stg for most expensive Ghana cocoa to zero for Malaysian cocoa.     Purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock and those on any one day should be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate and forward positions.     The council meeting, which is expected to conclude two weeks of sessions involving various working groups and the council itself, was continuing, the delegates said.     The current cocoa agreement came into force on January 20 during a previous meeting of the council which was unable to agree on the rules to implement buffer stock operations.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, buffer stock working group began examining a draft proposal for buffer stock rules this afternoon, delegates said.     The plan, presented by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, represented a compromise between producer, European Community, EC, and other consumer views on how the buffer stock should operate, they said.     The proposal involved three key principles. First, the buffer stock manager would be open to offers for cocoa rather than using fixed posted prices as previously, delegates said.     Under an offer system, the buffer stock manager would be free to choose cocoas of varying prices, they said.     The second provision was that non-ICCO member cocoa could comprise a maximum 10 pct of the buffer stock, while the third laid out a pricing system under which the buffer stock manager would pay differentials for different grades of cocoa, to be set by a formula, the delegates said.     After the plan was presented, working group delegates met briefly in smaller groups of producers, EC consumers and all consumers to look at the proposal. Producers gave no reaction to the scheme and will respond to it when the working group meets tomorrow at 1000 GMT, producer delegates said.     Consumer members accepted the proposal as a good base to work from, one consumer delegate said.     Delegates said the proposal was only a starting point for negotiations on buffer stock rules and subject to change.  \n',cocoa
'International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) producers and consumers accepted the principles of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation, delegates said.     The buffer stock working group then asked ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, who wrote up the draft compromise, to flesh out details of the principles with the assistance of a representative group of delegates, they said.     The working group broke up for the day, into a smaller group of five producers and five consumers to discuss administrative rules and into the group headed by Erbynn to hammer out buffer stock rules details, delegates said.     Delegates said many differences of opinion still have to be ironed out. \"Whenever we start getting into details the clouds gather,\" one delegate said.     Erbynn is likely to present fleshed out details of the buffer stock rules proposal to the working group early tomorrow, delegates said.     The principles of the draft proposal included establishing an offer system for buffer stock purchases rather than a posted price system, a limit to the amount of non-ICCO member cocoa that can be bought, and differentials to be paid for different varieties of cocoa comprising the buffer stock, delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Council, ICCO, adjourned for the day after a detailed proposal on buffer stock rules was distributed and executive committee officials were elected, delegates said.     Producers, EC consumers and all consumers are scheduled to hold separate meetings tomorrow to review the proposal, written by ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn, they said.     The buffer stock working group is to meet again on rules Monday morning, and the full council is to reconvene Tuesday, delegates said.     Heinz Hofer of Switzerland was elected executive committee chairman and Mette Mogstad of Norway vice chairman, they added.  \n',cocoa
'The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council adjourned after presenting divergent producer and consumer views on buffer stock rules and agreeing to examine a draft compromise proposal on the buffer stock issue tomorrow, delegates said.     ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn will draw up what some delegates called a \"pre-compromise\" and present it to the buffer stock working group at 1130 hrs GMT Tuesday, they said.     While consumer and producer member nations disagree how a buffer stock should be implemented, both sides reiterated they were willing to compromise to come to agreement, they said.     \"I am optimistic we will be able to come to an agreement -- maybe not tomorrow or the next day, but some time later in the session,\" a consumer delegate said.     Producers say they want the buffer stock to consist only of ICCO member cocoa, comprise a representative basket of various grade cocoas and pay different prices for different grades, delegates said.     Some consumers would rather the buffer stock manager be able to buy non-member cocoa also, and pay a single price for the buffer stock cocoa without respect to origin.     Consumer members were not unified in their views on how the buffer stock should operate, with several countries backing different aspects of the producer stance, delegates said.     The semi-annual council meeting is scheduled to run until March 27. Consideration of the buffer stock rules is the most controversial topic on the agenda, delegates said.  \n',cocoa
'Edouard Kouame, Ivorian delegate to the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), was chosen Executive Director of the ICCO, effective October 1, ICCO officials said.     Kouame will succeed Dr. Kobena Erbynn of Ghana in the post.  \n',cocoa
'A senior Ivory Coast Agriculture Ministry official confirmed his country\'s backing for a new international cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would be present at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.     The official tolds that Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convened by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London on Monday.     While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the country\'s capital Yamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates will be present throughout the London talks, the official said.     Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours that he or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of public mourning in the West African nation helped depress already low world cocoa prices Friday.     The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the new pact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of the world\'s cocoa exporters and consumers.     He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCO Council chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March 27.     The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of the pact\'s buffer stock which producers hope will boost a market hit by successive world cocoa surpluses.     Ivory Coast did not participate in the last international cocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparked hopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices.  \n',cocoa
'Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council, will not be able to open the council session here tomorrow, an Ivorian ICCO delegate tolds.     He will arrive sometime later during the meetings here, the delegate said. The council session will be chaired instead by ICCO vice chairman Sir Denis Henry, the delegate from Grenada, ICCO officials said.     Ivorian officials last week said Bra Kanon was due to return home for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny March 19-22.  \n',cocoa
'Jacobs Suchard AG expects a world cocoa surplus of around 100,000 tonnes in 1987 compared with a 104,000 tonne surplus in 1986, Jens Sroka, head of commodity buying, told a news conference.     The company expects prices to remain at around current levels despite the likelihood of agreement on buffer stock rules at the forthcoming London cocoa talks, and believes market intervention by the buffer stock manager would stabilise prices.     Sroka said world coffee prices are expected to remain weak if any international coffee talks fail to produce agreement.     Sroka said stagnating consumption and slight overproduction will continue to weigh on coffee prices and he forecast a continued build-up in stocks.     The recent failure of the London coffee talks had surprised market observers.     Unless reason prevails and the major producers return to the conference table, the world coffee market will remain free and the consequences for some producers dependant on coffee for their foreign exchange earnings would be catastrophic, Sroka added.  \n',cocoa
'Japan is in the process of joining the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), which will bring the number of members in the body to 36, ICCO officials said.     Japan is completing constitutional procedures necessary to its accession to the ICCO and is expected to become an importing member in three to four months, they said.  \n',cocoa
'The first 23 members have been elected to the joint traded options facility of the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE), the exchanges said in a statement.     More firms have applied and the final tranche will be admitted on April one and trading is planned to start in early June on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.     Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base to succeed and chairman of the joint formation committee Jack Patterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPE gas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this.  \n',cocoa
'Leading cocoa producers will discuss whether newly-agreed rules on an international cocoa buffer stock will succeed in reversing a sharp fall in world prices when they start four day\'s of talks here later today, conference sources said.     Another topic likely to be discussed at the twice-yearly meeting of the Cocoa Producer Alliance (CPA) is the pact\'s second line of market support -- a witholding scheme under which exporters can take up to 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if buffer stock purchases fail to defend prices.     The International Cocoa Organisation is due to discuss the scheme at a meeting in June, and exporters could use the Yaounde talks to work out a common position on the issue, the sources said.     Delegates will also be briefed on arrangements for an international cocoa research conference due to take place in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic next month, CPA secretary general D.S. Kamga said.     The 11-member CPA include the world\'s top three producers of Ivory Coast, Brazil and Ghana and accounts for around 80 pct of world output.  \n',cocoa
'Cocoa futures fell to session lows by midmorning, posting losses from last night of six to two stg a tonne in 1987 deliveries, dealers said.     Weekend profittaking by jobbers and general book-squaring featured the fall which was aided by steady sterling versus the dollar and lack of offtake in the physicals market.     Dealers said the market was switch and straddle-bound, in that any pressure on one particular month was certain to be reflected in adjacent deliveries.     The undertone, however, remained cautious as operators await an eventual start to ICCO buffer stock buying, dealers said.     The market was originally forecast to open with average five stg gains from last night following New York\'s firmer close yesterday, dealers said.     But this was largely counter-balanced by currency factors.     Near July traded at its session low of 1,327 stg after one hour versus 1,333 bid last night and an early high of 1,335.     Volume midmorning was 730 lots including 350 lots crossed and 108 switches.     There was no sign of any origin activity.  \n',cocoa
'Madagascar\'s cocoa production is estimated 13 pct higher this year at 2,720 tonnes, up from 2,400 in 1986, Agriculture Ministry officials said.     This improvement reflects the government\'s efforts over the last seven years to extend existing cocoa plantations and plant new higher yielding varieties, particularly at the northern tip of the island, they said.     Last year, Madagascar exported 2,189 tonnes of high quality cocoa, up from 1,624 in 1985, the Trade Ministry said.     This year\'s exports are estimated at 2,400 tonnes.  \n',cocoa
'Government officials in Malaysia, a major cocoa producer, have declined to say whether it will join the International Cocoa Agreement (ICCA) for which buffer stock rules were agreed in London last week.     Ministry of Primary Industries officials said in January the cabinet would decide on Malaysia\'s participation, but so far a decision has not been announced. The government is said to be in favour of joining the pact, but local cocoa growers and traders tolds they are against the idea because certain provisions in it may be to their disadvantage.     Malaysia is the world\'s fourth largest cocoa producer. The government feels that the pact, through its buffer stock mechanism, can help stabilise prices in a market which is labouring under surpluses, officials said.     But growers and traders are concerned Malaysia\'s participation in the pact will require them to pay a levy for exports of cocoa to non-member countries of the ICCA.     They estimate the levy at around 100 ringgit a tonne at current prices and said they are not prepared to accept it because a big portion of Malaysia\'s cocoa exports, officially estimated at 112,000 tonnes in 1986, goes to non-members.     Most growers and traders added they are also against a buffer stock measure under the agreement which requires withholding of cocoa stocks when prices slump.     Malaysia, which produced 117,000 tonnes of cocoa last year, might be forced to withhold up to 70,000 tonnes worth some 30 mln ringgit under such a measure in the long-term, and this might affect their economic viability, they said.     \"The cost of maintaining such a stock can be high and it will be a real messy business for the government and the trade if it ever occurs,\" an industry source said.     The growers and traders also said that under new buffer stock rules Malaysia can continue to benefit even if it is not a member of the pact, as the buffer stock manager is also allowed to buy from non-members for the stockpile.     Under the new rules purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock.     Malaysia has come under pressure from some producers to join the pact soon, officials said, but they noted that it need not rush to do so as there are provisions which allow countries to join the agreement even at a later date.  \n',cocoa
'New York cocoa traders reacted with caution to today\'s developments at the International Cocoa Organization talks in London, saying there is still time for negotiations to break down.     \"I would be extremely cautious to go either long or short at this point,\" said Jack Ward, president of the cocoa trading firm Barretto Peat. \"If and when a final position comes out (of the ICCO talks) one will still have time to put on positions. The risk at the moment is not commensurate with the possible gain.\"     ICCO producer and consumer delegates this morning accepted the outlines of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation. A smaller group of representatives is now charged with fleshing out the details.     \"Market sentiment has reflected optimism, I would\'t put it any stronger than that,\" Ward said.     \"It seems to put them slightly closer to an agreement... but one shouldn\'t forget how much they have to negotiate,\" said another trader of today\'s developments.     Many dealers were sidelined coming into the negotiations and have remained so, traders said.     \"The dealers have got historically small positions in outright terms,\" one trader said.     Speculators have gone net long \"but only slightly so,\" he added.     The recent price strength -- gains of about 52 dlrs the last two days -- has been due in large part to sterling\'s rally against the dollar and in the process has attracted a measure of origin selling, traders said.  \n',cocoa
'Pessimism over the effects of a prolonged dry spell on the coming Bahian temporao cocoa crop is rising with trade forecasts generally in the 2.0 mln to 2.5 mln bag range against 2.5 mln to 3.0 mln a fortnight ago.     Trade sources tolds from the state capital of Salvador that despite scattered rains since mid-February, which broke a six week drought, plantations have not picked up as hoped and very little cocoa is expected to be gathered in the first three months of the May/September crop.     The sources said arrivals from May through July might only reach around 600,000 bags whereas in normal years a figure of 1.0 mln to 1.5 mln bags might be expected.     Arrivals from then should start to pick up sharply as pods from current flowering are gathered. However, the sources noted a late temporao is always more susceptible to pod rot, which flourishes if conditions turn cold and humid, and which is more likely from late July on.     This year\'s crop is doubly susceptible because poor prices mean farmers were not encouraged to invest in fertilisers and insecticides and are also unlikely to treat against pod rot.     A severe attack of pod rot can cause the loss of over 500,000 bags in a very short period, one source said.     Because of the increased exposure to pod rot damage, estimates of the final outcome of the temporao are extremely vulnerable and production could easily drop to below the 2.0 mln bag mark if the disease hits.     Although flowering was good following the start of the rains, pod setting was not up to expectations, possibly because the drought had caused a drop in the insect population which pollinates flowers, the sources said.     However, reports from farms indicate moisture levels are now generally back to near normal levels and that current flowering and pod setting is good, which should result in mature fruit from August through September.     The sources said they expect no break in the harvesting of beans between the end of the temporao and the beginning of the main crop, which officially starts on October 1.     \"The cut-off date is completely artificial. If things go well from now on we should see heavy harvesting without a break from August through November or even December,\" one said.     If predictions of a 2.0 to 2.5 mln bag temporao prove accurate this would be below the 2.7 mln bag average for the past 10 years. The last poor temporao was in 1984 when prolonged drought and later pod rot cut production to 1.79 mln bags, the lowest since 1974.     Good growing conditions the following year produced a temporao of 3.12 mln bags, just below the 1983 3.17 mln bag record, while last year\'s output, which also suffered some drought damage, was 2.77 mln bags.     Figures for the coming temporao might be distorted upwards by the inclusion of undeclared current main crop beans.     The sources said large quantities of beans are believed to have been undeclared from this year\'s record total harvest and they were unsure how much of this would be unregistered by the end of the official crop year on April 30.     Recent official arrivals figures have been swollen by the inclusion of beans which had been delivered previously to port warehouses but not declared.     Because of the high turnover of beans this year, significant amounts have deteriorated because they were stored too long at the back of warehouses. Some of these are expected to be held for mixing in with early temporao arrivals.     With official arrivals figures for the 1986/87 temporao and main crops totalling over 6.1 mln bags, and over seven weeks still to go to the end of the year, the total outturn should be at least a record 6.5 mln bags if all production is declared, the sources said.     This would compare with the previous record set last year of 6.03 mln.     However, there is no way of telling how many current crop beans will be declared after the May 1 start of the temporao and thus the true size of the 1986/87 harvest may never be officially registered.  \n',cocoa
'Trade estimates of the coming May/September temporao harvest in Brazil\'s main cocoa growing state of Bahia are now in the 1.5 mln to 2.0 mln 60-kilo bag range against 2.0 mln to 2.5 mln two weeks ago.     Traders in the state capital Salvador tolds the effects of a dry period in the first six weeks of the year had been harsher than thought earlier.     Although good flowering had followed the onset of rains in mid-February subsequent pod setting was dissappointing.     Last year\'s temporao, also hit by a dry spell, was 2.77 mln bags. In 1984 severe drought cut the crop to 1.79 mln bags.     The traders said another factor leading to lower crop predictions is that many farmers are not caring properly for plantations because of low returns on their investment.     Manpower, fertiliser and other costs have been cut back as farmers feel the pinch of the rise in interest rates over the past six months coupled with low bean prices.     If such economies continue into the winter months both the temporao and the developing October/April main crop could face serious damage from pod rot attacks on trees which would normally be treated against the disease.     Recent very wet weather has already caused some isolated incidences of pod rot but reports from the growing regions say these are not yet significant.     The traders said they expect very low deliveries of temporao beans in the first three months of the harvest and the bulk will not appear until the last month, September.     Despite the low loads, trees are said to be in excellent condition and recent flowering and pod setting - which will lead to late temporao/early main crop beans - has been good.  \n',cocoa